
 A Meta-analysis of Transformational and Transactional Leadership Correlates
         of Effectiveness and Satisfaction: An Update and Extension






                             Uldarico Rex Dumdum
                            Marywood University &
                        Center for Leadership Studies
                            Binghamton University


                                Kevin B. Lowe
                    Department of Business Administration
                   Bryan School of Business and Economics
                  University of North Carolina-- Greensboro

                                     and

                               Bruce J. Avolio
                          Department of Management
                     College of Business Administration
                           University of Nebraska




                             To be published as

Dumdum, U. R., Lowe, K. B., & Avolio, B. J. (2002). A meta-analysis of
transformational and transactional leadership correlates of effectiveness
and satisfaction: An update and extension. In Bruce J. Avolio and Francis
J. Yammarino (Eds.), Transformational and charismatic leadership: The road
ahead. (pp 35-66). Oxford, UK: Elsevier Science.



                                Introduction

      One of the core arguments made by Bass (1985) was that
transformational leadership would account for a greater share of the
variance in performance outcomes when compared to more traditional
transactional styles of leadership. Over the last fifteen plus years,
considerable evidence has been accumulated supporting Bass' original
contention with studies conducted in a very broad range of organizational
settings (Avolio, 1999; Bass, 1998). Transformational leadership has been
shown to correlate positively with performance outcome measures ranging
from growth in church membership (Onnen, 1987) to the performance of
platoons operating in near combat conditions (Bass, Avolio, Jung, & Berson,
in press).
      The growing attention in the literature to transformational and
charismatic leadership has rejuvenated the field of leadership and
attracted a number of new scholars to the field (Hunt, 1999).  For example,
in a comprehensive 10 year review of the articles published in the
Leadership Quarterly, Lowe and Gardner (2000) found the
charismatic/transformational leadership paradigm was the most researched
areas of leadership over the last decade, surpassing attention given to all
other leadership paradigms. A further analysis of the Lowe and Gardner data
conducted for this paper, showed that the 1995-1999 period produced more
published studies on the paradigm than the 1990-1994 period, suggesting a
growing interest among leadership scholars in researching charismatic and
transformational leadership.
      Over the time span since Bass published his (1985) book, there have
been three quantitative reviews of the literature conducted on the
neocharismatic/transformational leadership paradigm (Gaspar, 1992; Lowe,
Kroeck, and Sivasubramainiam, 1996; DeGroot, Kiker & Cross, 2000). Gasper's
work focused primarily on educational settings, in which he aggregated a
number of study variables later shown to be important moderators of the
leadership and effectiveness relationship. Lowe, Kroeck, and
Sivasubramaniam focused on the five-factor model of transformational
leadership as measured by the Multi-Factor Leadership Questionnaire (MLQ)
to guide their meta-analysis. Lowe et al. examined the relationship between
transformational and transactional leadership with individual and
organizational-level measures of effectiveness.  Lowe et al. (1996) also
included three different moderators of the transformational leadership to
effectiveness relationship: type of criterion, level of leader, and type of
organization. DeGroot, Kiker and Cross (2000) focused more narrowly on the
charismatic component of transformational leadership, including in their
meta-analysis a wider variety of instruments including the MLQ, which all
assessed charismatic leadership.
      The primary purpose of the current study was to update and extend the
work of Lowe et al. (1996).  Specifically, we set as our goal to examine
all research using the MLQ that was not included in the Lowe et al. (1996),
by going back to 1995 and reviewing all published and non published
research on the MLQ up to and including research published in 2002. The
focus of the current meta-analysis was on empirical research using the MLQ
to measure transformational leadership and its relationship with measures
of performance effectiveness and satisfaction.  We settled on this strategy
for several reasons.  First, transformational leadership research utilizing
the full range leadership model and the MLQ provides the most widely
researched empirical assessment of the paradigm available.  Alternative
measures such as Podsakoff, MacKenzie, Moorman, & Fetter (1990) provide a
narrower assessment of the dimensions comprising the full range model.
      Second, an initial review of the literature back to 1995 showed that
the MLQ was by far, the most frequently used measure for studying
transformational leadership, and therefore the number of studies available
with this instrument allowed us to conduct more robust tests of moderator
variables. The survey developed by Podsakoff et al. (1990) has rarely
appeared in the literature, thus we decided to abandon its use in the
current study.
       Third, the Lowe et al. (1996) paper is by far, the most widely cited
quantitative review of the transformational leadership literature,
accumulating over one hundred citations in the six years since publication.
Thus, we felt using it as point of departure for the current meta-analysis
would provide an interesting and helpful update to their original study and
offer some continuity to examining the linkages between transformational
leadership and performance.
      The strategy we adopted can be described as a replication of the
theoretical arguments of Bass and extension with respect to data analysis
and interpretation. Consequently, we will not focus here on providing an
extensive discussion of the origins and evolution of the
charismatic/transformational leadership paradigm, which appears in a number
of other sources, including other chapters in this book (cf. Antonakis &
House, in press; Avolio, 1999; Bass, 1995, 1998; Conger & Kanungo, 1998;
House and Aditya, 1997). Our primary purpose is to conduct a meta-analysis
of studies published since Lowe et al. (1996) to determine if the
relationships they reported still hold. We also extend their analysis by
examining the relationship between leadership style and satisfaction. Since
the two most widely used criterion measures are performance and
satisfaction, we felt this extension could help provide a more
comprehensive picture of the charismatic/transformational leadership
paradigm.
       We chose to explore satisfaction in this meta-analysis since there is
a substantial literature that has showed linkages between satisfaction and
performance, a relationship that was described by Landy (1989) as the "Holy
Grail" of industrial psychologists. Yet evidence concerning this linkage
indicates the association although typically significant, is weaker than
initially thought, and in need of further research (Judge, Thoresen, Bono,
& Patton, 2001). Hence, our primary purpose is to explore the "true"
association between various leadership styles measured by the MLQ and the
"big two" criterion measures that are repeatedly used as benchmarks for
determining the impact of leadership in organizations. Thus, based on prior
leadership research and three previous meta-analyses we will examine the
following broad propositions:
         . Transformational leadership will be positively associated with
           measures of performance effectiveness and satisfaction.
         . Transactional contingent reward leadership will be positively
           associated with measures of performance effectiveness and
           satisfaction, but less so than transformational.
         . Passive-avoidant transactional leadership will be negatively
           associated with measures of performance effectiveness and
           satisfaction.
      In an attempt to re-examine the findings reported by Lowe et al.
(1996), we will explore whether the relationships between leadership style
and performance are moderated by organizational type. Specifically, we
examined the degree to which the leader x outcome relationships varied
between public/government and private organizations.
      We also intend to explore how the type of outcome measure moderates
the relationship between leadership style and satisfaction. Prior evidence
indicates that the leadership styles measured by the MLQ tend to be more
highly correlated with subjective versus more objective or external outcome
measures.  We intend to examine how the leadership styles measured by the
MLQ relate to satisfaction with the leader versus satisfaction with the
job.
Examining the Full Range Model
      Prior to reporting our methods and results we provide a quick overview
of the dimensions contained in the full range leadership development model,
which again is covered in more detail by Antonakis and House in the
previous chapter. The full range model of leadership may be broadly
classified as transformational leadership, transactional leadership, and
nontransactional leadership (Avolio, 1999).  Transformational leaders
engender trust, seek to develop leadership in others, exhibit self
sacrifice and serve as moral agents, focusing themselves and followers on
objectives that transcend the more immediate needs of the work group.
Transformational leaders typically engender higher levels of commitment,
trust, and loyalty in their followers that may lead to performance beyond
expectations.  Transformational leadership scales in this meta-analysis
included Attributed Charisma, Idealized Influence, Inspirational
Motivation, Intellectual Stimulation, and Individualized Consideration. We
also conducted a meta-analysis of a global scale of transformational
leadership comprised of selected items from the dimensional scales, since a
number of studies have included this higher-order construct, versus
reporting results for the individual component scales.
      Transactional leaders address the self-interest concerns of followers
by exchanging rewards or recognition for cooperation and compliance
behaviors consistent with task requirements.  The more effective
transactional relationships are constructive and often result in achieving
defined performance requirements. Transactional leadership scales in this
meta-analysis included the Contingent Reward, Management-by-Exception, and
a more global Transactional Leadership Scale comprised of selected items
from the component scales.
      Non-transactional leadership styles represent leadership behaviors
that are neither transformational nor are contingent on the exchange of
rewards for effort or performance.  The non-transactional scale used in
this meta-analysis has been labeled in the MLQ as Lassiez-Faire.
      In sum, our primary goal in conducting this latest meta-analysis of
literature accumulated using the MLQ survey was to update the results of
Lowe et al. (1996), by extending the period of review of their initial
study to the year 2002.  Thus, in combination, these two meta-analyses will
provide a review of the last 15 years of data collected on Bass' (1985)
originally proposed model of transformational, transactional and non-
transactional leadership and the extended model labeled the full range of
leadership
                                   Method
      The central purpose for conducting a meta-analysis is to statistically
analyze the results of many empirical studies in order to reveal a summary
set of findings.  Among the several available techniques for conducting a
meta-analysis we choose the method offered by Hunter and Schmidt (1990),
which has become the most widely used method in the organizational behavior
literature.  We followed the guidelines suggested by Schmitt and Klimoski
(1991) in our approach to the coding of studies and gave careful
consideration to the many judgment calls required in meta-analysis as
outlined by Wanous, Sullivan, and Malinak (1989).  We highlight two of
these judgment calls here to enable an accurate interpretation of our
results.
      First, we elected to include dissertations and "file drawer" studies
in an effort to capture as broad a sample as possible.  We felt some
comfort in doing so since Lowe et al. (1996) found that few differences
existed between published and unpublished studies in this domain.  Indeed
when unpublished studies do have an impact on the results it is generally
to reduce observed correlations.  Thus, the inclusion of unpublished
studies typically results in a more conservative test of significance.
      Second, many studies reported multiple measures of effectiveness and
satisfaction, which came from the perspective of a single group of raters.
To report each of these correlations with the associated sample size
attributed to each correlation would overweight studies correlating
leadership ratings with multiple effectiveness criteria, while
underweighting other studies that may have included only one outcome
measure.  If we used the strategy of coding multiple leader-outcome
relationships including the same leadership scales collected within a
single study, the correlations would not be independent, thus also
violating a basic assumption required for conducting a meta-analysis.
      There are two basic options one can pursue to deal with the problem of
dependent correlations. The research coder can determine the best
correlation coefficient to be included in the meta-analysis, eliminating
the other correlations from consideration. Alternatively, one can choose to
average multiple correlation coefficients to form a composite measure of
the variable of interest. In this study we were interested in effectiveness
and satisfaction as multi-faceted constructs and therefore decided to use
the averaging strategy to develop composite correlation coefficients in
studies where multiple measures of effectiveness and satisfaction were
collected.

Selection of Studies for the Meta-analysis

      We selected the cutoff date for the Lowe et al. (1996) study as the
beginning date for the current study by going back to 1995, when their
study was in the publication pipeline. We conducted a full literature
search as described in detail below, and included all articles that were
not included in the prior study.
      Five criteria were used for inclusion of studies in the meta-analysis:
(1) The study must have used the MLQ to measure leadership style; (2) The
study must have reported a measure of leader effectiveness; (3) The sample
size must have been reported; (4) A Pearson correlation coefficient (or
some other test statistic that could be converted into a correlation)
between leadership style and effectiveness must have been reported; and (5)
The leader must have been a direct leader of the subordinate (not an
idealized or hypothetical leader).
      Studies were located using a variety of methods including: (1)
Computer searches of ABI-INFORM, Web of Science, Expanded Academic ASAP,
Sociological Abstracts, PsychInfo, PA Research II Peer Reviewed, Francis,
Emerald, and Dissertation Abstracts; (2) Manual searches of Academy of
Management Proceedings; (3) Reference lists of published and unpublished
sources; (4) Request for all "file drawer" articles from the Center for
Leadership Studies (CLS) at Binghamton University and from the personal
library of  Bernard M. Bass.
      The literature search yielded over one hundred studies.  Forty-nine
studies met the five criteria for inclusion.  Twenty-four of these studies
were published in journals and books, thirteen were unpublished
dissertations and twelve were file-drawer articles. File-drawer articles
include working papers, internal reports or articles sent to the CLS
(through one or more of the CLS fellows), papers sent to Bernard M. Bass,
and papers under revision for journals.

Coding of Information


      Studies meeting the five criteria were reviewed and relevant
performance effectiveness and satisfaction data were extracted and coded.
The studies were coded twice by six students in three teams comprised of
two members on each team. The two members of each team independently coded
the article and then compared and discussed their coded information.
Students were trained on meta-analysis procedures and were taken through
several practice articles that had appeared in the meta-analysis reported
by Lowe et al. (1996). The training period was discontinued once the pairs
of raters had achieved a minimum coding agreement level of 80%.


      Initial inter-coder agreement well exceeded 90% for all study
variables included in the current meta-analysis. Where disagreement did
exist they were found to be a result of clerical error. Subsequent
discussion led to corrections of these clerical errors and agreement on the
appropriate criterion variables for coding and coefficient signage (need
for reverse coding).


      For studies in which multiple measures of effectiveness and
satisfaction were reported, the coding policy was to code all measures of
effectiveness (i.e., individual performance, team performance, extra
effort, turnover, cycle time, percent of goals met) and to code all
measures of satisfaction (i.e., satisfaction with leader, job
satisfaction).  In the overall meta-analysis (see Table 1) these
coefficients were averaged (as described above) within a study to obtain a
composite measure of effectiveness/satisfaction.  This process was repeated
in subsequent moderator analyses with relevant coefficients (e.g.,
effectiveness criterion only, objective measures of effectiveness) within a
study averaged to form a composite coefficient. As the specification of the
relevant criterion becomes more specific the need to construct a composite
measure is obviated by the specificity of the criterion variable.

Meta-Analytic Procedures
      Sample weighted means and standard deviations were first calculated.
Following the approach of Lowe et al. (1996), correlations were first
subjected to a meta-analysis to eliminate the effects of sampling error.
Reliability data was not reported for all of the studies however the
available reports were sufficient to allow for corrections due to
unreliability using the artifact distribution method (Hunter and Schmidt,
1990).  Credibility and confidence intervals were constructed around the
mean effect sizes to make inferences regarding the extent to which
moderators might be present and to determine the accuracy and significance
of the estimated mean effect size.  Credibility intervals indicate the
extent to which the corrected coefficient might be generalized and indicate
tests for moderators when they are large or include zero, while confidence
intervals assess the accuracy of the mean effect size.
                                   Results
Overall Meta-analysis Findings
      Results of the overall meta-analysis combining effectiveness and
satisfaction measures are provided in Table 1.  All transformational scales
had internal consistency reliabilities exceeding .70, the conventional
level for acceptance as internally consistent (Nunnally, 1978).  All
transformational leadership scales were highly and positively correlated
with the effectiveness/satisfaction criteria.  The corrected and
uncorrected coefficients were .66 (.54) for Attributed Charisma, .66 (.50)
for Idealized Influence, .56 (.46) for Inspirational Motivation, .52 (.42)
for Intellectual Stimulation, .55 (.44) for Individualized Consideration,
and .46 (.40) for Transformational Leadership.
       Sample weighted scale means and standard deviations were similar for
the five transformational scales ranging from 2.43 to 2.76 and .72 to .86
respectively.  The composite Transformational Leadership scale had a mean
of 3.05 and a standard deviation of .93.  All credibility intervals were
large and several included zero indicating that further analysis for
moderators was warranted.  This finding is not surprising given the diverse
set of subjective and objective criterion measures included in this meta-
analysis. Yet, such an initial broad brush does help answer the question of
what is the relationship between leadership and desired outcomes.  A broad
approach also prevents an a priori conclusion regarding the presence of
moderators.
                         ---------------------------
                          Insert table 1 about here
                         ---------------------------
      For the transactional scales, all of the reliability estimates
exceeded .70, except a .69 for the Management-by-Exception Passive scale.
The corrected and uncorrected correlation coefficients were .51 (.41) for
Contingent Reward, .05 (.04) for Management-by-Exception Active, -.34 (-
.26) for Management-by-Exception Passive, and -.21 (-.16) for the combined
Management-by-Exception scale. The composite scale mean and standard
deviation for the transactional scale was 2.94 and .76, respectively.
      For the non-transactional leadership scale Lazziez-Faire the corrected
and uncorrected correlations were -.30 and -.38 respectively. Consequently,
this scale had the strongest negative relationship with
effectiveness/satisfaction among the full range leadership scales examined
in this study.  This finding is consistent with that advanced by Avolio
(1999) who describes Laissez-faire as "...by definition, [the] most
inactive, as well as most ineffective, according to almost all prior
research on the style (p. 50)".  The mean, standard deviation, and
reliability of the scale were consistent with those reported for the
transformational and transactional scales.  The credibility interval was
narrower than for most other scales but included zero suggesting further
exploration for moderators was warranted.
      Overall, these preliminary results provide some support for the three
basic propositions stated up front, except that the overall
transformational scales relationship with the performance outcome (.46) was
similar to the relationship between contingent reward and the performance
outcomes (.51). It is important to note, that the composite
transformational scale did not include all of the scales, or necessarily
all of the items. However, these results generally support Bass' (1998)
contention that there is a hierarchical relationship between
transformational, transactional, non-transactional and performance
effectiveness, especially at the individual scale level.
      Based on the wide credibility intervals observed for the overall meta-
analysis we proceeded to investigate moderators.  The first natural
dichotomy was to separate the criterion measures into effectiveness and
satisfaction.
Examining Outcome Measures of Satisfaction and Effectiveness
      Table 2 reports two meta-analyses, one for effectiveness and one for
satisfaction, which are subsets of the overall meta-analyses discussed
above. The careful reader will note that the sum of the effectiveness and
satisfaction sample sizes in Table 2 exceed the sample size reported in
Table 1. This increase occurs where composite criterion coefficients were
initially constructed and then decomposed and assigned the study sample
size in each moderator subgroup.
                                                  ---------------------------
-------
                          Insert table 2 about here
                     ----------------------------------
      The means and standard deviations for the twelve scales were nearly
identical for the effectiveness and satisfaction sub-samples, and
consistent with results reported for the overall sample.  Scale
reliabilities for both subgroups were also consistently in the acceptable
range with the exception of the Management-by-Exception scale with
satisfaction where the alpha was .62.  Thus the population parameters for
the two subgroups were quite similar.  The number of studies in most
subgroups exceeded the minimum five recommended for conducting a meta-
analysis and the number of coefficients across the studies was more than
sufficient to conduct a proper meta-analysis.
      Correlations of the transformational leadership scales with
effectiveness and satisfaction were consistently high and positive.  For
each of the transformational subscales the coefficient for Satisfaction was
greater than for Effectiveness.  Corrected coefficients for Effectiveness
and Satisfaction respectively were .68(.90) for Attributed Charisma,
.68(.73) for Idealized Influence, .55(.75) for Inspirational Motivation,
.57(.73) for Intellectual Stimulation and .59(.81) for Individualized
Consideration.  For the Transformational scale used in a smaller number of
studies the Effectiveness and Satisfaction coefficients were .50 (.40). For
the transactional leadership scales the coefficient for Satisfaction was
again higher than for Effectiveness when the coefficients were positive and
more negative when the coefficients were negative.  Corrected coefficients
for Effectiveness and Satisfaction respectively were .76(.56) for
Contingent Reward, -.09(.08) for Management-By-Exception-Active, -.46(-.38)
for Management-by-Exception-Passive, -.44(-.30) for Management-by-
Exception, and .21(.19) for Transactional Leadership.
      For the non-transactional Lassiez-Faire scale the same pattern was
observed, the corrected coefficient was stronger for Satisfaction (-.53)
than for Effectiveness (-.37).
An analysis of the credibility and confidence intervals shows that the
intervals remain large but are less likely to include zero than in the
overall meta-analysis.  In general, the credibility intervals for the
transformational subscales and the Contingent Reward scale have higher
positive lower bounds, while credibility intervals for the transactional
and non-transactional scales have more negative lower bounds.  Although the
wide confidence intervals continue to suggest the presence of moderators,
the decreasing presence of zero in these intervals suggests that
improvement was realized through separating these two outcome measures.
      Based on results reported in Table 2, we decided to probe the
Effectiveness and Satisfaction measures for moderators.  Two promising
moderators for Effectiveness identified by Lowe et al. (1996) included the
type of criterion measure and type of organization.  We turn our attention
to these two moderators of the leadership to effectiveness relationship
first and then examine the leadership to satisfaction relationship by
dichotomizing satisfaction into satisfaction with the leader and
satisfaction with the job.
Public and Private Organizations
      Comparing public to private organizations, we found the means and
standard deviations for these two subgroups across the twelve scales were
statistically different due to large sample sizes, but there was relatively
little practical difference observed.  For example, the means for the
transformational scales were typically between 2.5 and 2.8 with standard
deviations between .60 and .80.  For the transactional scales and
nontransactional leadership scales the means were generally lower, but
still comparable scale to scale.
        Internal consistency reliabilities met conventional thresholds with
the exception of Idealized Influence for Public organizations (.69) and
Lassiez Faire for Private organizations (.67).  The number of studies in
most of the subgroups exceeded the minimum five recommended for conducting
a meta-analysis, except for four of the twenty four subgroups (Idealized
Influence-Public, Management-by-Exception-Private (and Public),
Transactional Leadership-Private had fewer than five and one
Transformational Leadership-Private had exactly five.  Concerns regarding
the number of unique studies are ameliorated to some extent by the
relatively high number of coefficients garnered from these studies, which
often utilized multiple samples or measures within a study.
      Correlations between transformational leadership scales and
effectiveness were moderately high and positive for all scales.  In
contrast to the effectiveness/satisfaction subgroup analyses neither the
Public or Private subgroup consistently had a higher coefficient.
Corrected coefficients for Public and Private Organizations respectively
were .76(.65) for Attributed Charisma, .66(.70) for Idealized Influence,
.48(.60) for Inspirational Motivation, .50(.58) for Intellectual
Stimulation, .48(.61) for Individualized Consideration and .53(N/A) for the
Transformational Leadership scale.
                     ----------------------------------

                          Insert Table 3 about here

                     ----------------------------------
      Like the findings for the transformational scales neither
Public/Private subgroup had a consistently higher correlation with
effectiveness when we examined the transactional scales.  For Contingent
Reward the public subgroup had a marginally higher coefficient (.56) than
the private subgroup (.53).  Management-by-Exception Active was positively
correlated with effectiveness for both subgroups with coefficients of .13
and .04 in the Private and Public subgroups, respectively. Of the remaining
scales only Management-by-Exception Passive (-.38) -.36 and Lassiez-Faire (-
.38) -.36 for public and private organizations respectively had sufficient
subgroup sample sizes to make these comparisons.
      An analysis of the credibility intervals identifies that although the
range of the credibility intervals declined marginally, the number
excluding zero continued to improve. The credibility intervals for the
private subgroup excluded zero for all transformational subscales. A review
of the 95% confidence intervals reveals that all scales excluded zero for
all subgroups except Management-by Exception Active in Public
organizations.  Thus it seems reasonable to conclude that there is a
relationship between leadership styles as measured by the MLQ scales and
effectiveness criteria in both public and private organizations with the
five transformational subscales, Contingent Reward, and Management-by-
Exception Active scales exhibiting positive relationships and the combined
Management-by-Exception scale, Management-by-Exception Passive and Lassiez-
Faire scales producing negative relationships with effectiveness.  We can
also conclude from the large credibility intervals, that a continued search
for moderators is warranted.  Based on prior meta-analyses of the
transformational leadership literature we next considered the impact of the
type of criterion on the leadership and effectiveness relationship
Type of Criterion: Leadership Style and Effectiveness
      A review of Table 4 reveals a now familiar pattern in means, standard
deviations and internal consistency reliabilities. Corrected correlation
coefficients were dramatically different across subgroups for the five
transformational leadership subscales and the Contingent Reward scale.  In
general, many more studies utilized subjective measures of effectiveness
than utilized objective measures of effectiveness and thus there were in
some cases insufficient sample sizes in the objective subgroup to examine
these relationships.
      Corrected correlation coefficients for the subjective and objective
groups respectively were .85 (.23) for Attributed Charisma, .76 (n.a.) for
Idealized Influence, .74(.21) for Inspirational Motivation, .71(.21) for
Intellectual Stimulation, .75(.20) for Individualized Consideration and .70
(.16) for Contingent Reward. The objective subgroup coefficient for
Inspirational Motivation must be interpreted with considerable caution
given the relatively low number of studies even though they were based on a
relatively large aggregated sample size across these few studies.
      The findings for the objective subgroup for Intellectual Stimulation,
Individualized Consideration, and Contingent Reward are more robust. These
findings are consistent with earlier meta-analyses (Lowe et. al., 1996) and
are based on a sufficiently large number of independent studies.
                       ------------------------------
                          Insert table 4 about here
                       ------------------------------
      Corrected correlation coefficients for the remaining transactional and
nontransactional scales were .10 (.00) for Management-by Exception-Active,
.10(-.07) for Management-by-Exception-Passive, -.32 (N/A) for Management-by-
Exception, -.47 (-15) for Lassiez Faire, and .32 (-.05) for Transactional
Leadership for the subjective and objective subgroups respectively.
However, most of the objective subgroup coefficients should be interpreted
cautiously due to the small number of studies.  The notable exception to
the small number of studies concern was for the Lassiez Faire scale.  Our
results are consistent with the argument that Lassiez Faire is the least
effective form of leadership.
      Credibility interval analysis suggests that a further search for
moderators is warranted.  This is not surprising since the disappointing
number of studies incorporating objective measures of effectiveness hampers
our ability to test for these effects.  An analysis of the 95% confidence
intervals reveals that most do not include zero and thus we can posit that
leadership behavior as measured by the MLQ is associated with subjective
effectiveness in the direction indicated.  For objective measures of
effectiveness we can make this claim for a limited set of scales.
Type of Criterion: Leadership Style and Two Satisfaction Measures
      Means, standard deviations, and internal consistency reliabilities
were similar to our findings for earlier subgroups.  This provides some
reassurance that differences in correlations regarding leadership styles
and various outcome measures are determined by something other than
response bias differences across subgroups.  Consistent with our
expectations, the transformational leadership scales were more highly
correlated with satisfaction with the leader than with satisfaction with
the job.  Corrected correlations for satisfaction with the leader and
satisfaction with the job subgroups respectively were .92(.57) for
Attributed Charisma, .77(.41) for Idealized Influence, .78(.35) for
Inspirational Motivation, .71(.21) for Intellectual Stimulation, and
.83(.43) for Individualized Consideration.  For the Transformational
Leadership scale the subgroup coefficients were .57 and .30, respectively.
      For transactional and nontransactional scales the subgroup
correlations were .82(.52) for Contingent Reward, -.12(-.05) for Management-
by-Exception Active, -.47(-39) for Management-by-Exception Positive, -.44
(n.a.) for Management-by-Exception, and -.56(-.44) for Lassiez-Faire.  For
the Transactional Leadership scale the coefficients were .21(.24).  A
review of these coefficients reveals a clear pattern of MLQ scale scores
being more strongly correlated with Satisfaction with the Leader than with
Satisfaction with the job.  This is true for both positive correlations
(e.g., Attributed Charisma, Contingent Reward) and negative correlations
(e.g., Lassiez-Faire).
      Again, these subgroup analyses must also be viewed with some degree of
caution given the relatively small number of studies in each grouping.
Perhaps, the strongest conclusions can be drawn for the Contingent Reward
and Transformational Leadership scales and to a lesser extent the
Management-by-Exception Active scale, given the larger sample sizes
representing these different subgroups.
                                 Discussion
   With most leadership paradigms, it would be helpful to update results
periodically to determine whether the hypothesized relationships change
over time. Changes in organizational structure and how performance is
measured may affect relationships between leadership style and performance.
For example, as more leaders work with followers at a distance and via
advanced information technology one wonders what impact that may have on
the relationship between leadership style and performance (Avolio, Kahai &
Dodge, 2000). Also, as new cohorts of workers enter organizations one
wonders how the relationship between leadership style and performance may
change over time. This leads one to question the extent to which the new
cohort of employees, who have been described in the media as more
independent and challenging, may view directive leadership as a more
negative style of leadership than previous cohorts of employees.
   The meta-analysis conducted for this study extends the work of Lowe et
al. (1996) by examining 12 scales comprising the MLQ as opposed to the 5
reported in their study. The inclusion of all 12 scales provides a more
comprehensive assessment of the full range of leadership styles, which
Antonakis and House (in-press) advocate using as the 'scaffold' for
building a broader and fuller range model of leadership. We've also
included in this meta-analysis an examination of the relationship between
leadership style and satisfaction, which was not included in the earlier
meta-analysis.
   Generally speaking, the results of the overall meta-analysis and
subsequent examination of moderators, confirmed what has been reported in
earlier individual studies and meta-analyses. The hierarchical pattern
proposed in the full range model of leadership, has received consistent
support over these last 15 years, with the current study reflecting prior
trends linking transformational, transactional and non-transactional
leadership to performance. This consistent pattern of results is
encouraging in that it suggests these relationships are enduring and are
not episodic in the sense that they are tied to one period in history, a
particular version of the MLQ, or artifacts of the cohort or type of
outcome measures being evaluated. Indeed, the corrected correlations
reported for effectiveness with the various transformational scales
presented in Table 2, are remarkably similar to those reported by Lowe et
al. (1996) in their overall meta-analysis of effectiveness.  Specifically,
the corrected correlations in the current and 1996 study were .68(.73) for
Charisma, .59(.62) for Individualized Consideration, and .57(.60) for
Intellectual Stimulation, respectively.  Contingent Reward was somewhat
different .56(.41), but would lead to the same conclusion, that Contingent
Reward is positively and has a moderately high correlation with
effectiveness. Perhaps the main difference is that the Contingent reward
scale tended to have a similar positive relationship with performance
effectiveness and satisfaction as compared with transformational
leadership.
   Yet, there were also some notable exceptions comparing the results of the
two meta-analyses. For example, there was a significant between study
difference in the corrected correlation coefficient for Management-by-
Exception .05(-.30).  Presently, it is not clear why such a large
difference exists. However, it is worth noting that the number of studies
utilizing this scale decreased by two thirds relative to the meta-analysis
conducted in 1996. This has been due to an increased use of the subscales
representing Management-by Exception Active and Management by Exception
Passive. The similarity that should be noted is that that the coefficient
for Management-by-Exception Passive in this study was approximately the
same as the Management-by-Exception coefficient in the 1996 meta-analysis.
   The differences regarding the overall Management-by-Exception scale may
be due to a variety of factors. Possibly as organizations de-level, the
span of control has increased affecting how leaders actively and passively
manage-by-exception with their followers. Alternatively, the earlier meta-
analysis conducted by Lowe et al. (1996) was based on an earlier version of
the MLQ, which did not as clearly distinguish active and passive management-
by-exception. Thus the item composition of the two instruments may have
affected the outcomes that are reported in each respective study.
    The differences in MLQ forms between 1996 and 2002 may also help explain
the lower positive correlation noted between Contingent Reward leadership
and effectiveness reported by Lowe et al. (1996). Specifically, the earlier
MLQ Form 5R, contained contingent reward items that were more exchange
oriented or based on quid pro quo criteria. The MLQ Form 5X used in most of
the research contained in this meta-analysis, contains a shorter contingent
reward scale (4 versus 10 items), and that scale taps more of the higher-
order transactions associated with recognition and exchange of agreements
(Avolio, 1999). Along these lines, Goodwin et al. (2001) has argued that
some of the transactional contingent reward items are of a lower order
type, which they associate with more explicit contracting with followers.
The remaining items are more of the higher order transactional type and are
generally associated with recognition and forming of implicit contracts. In
the newer MLQ Form 5X, two of the contingent reward items appear to
represent more of the lower order transactional-type items. For example one
of the items is 'rewards us when we do what we are supposed to do'.
Goodwin et al. (2001) reported that the lower-order transactional scale had
higher discriminant validity versus the higher-order transactional scale
when correlated with the transformational leadership scale
   Bass et al. (in press) also showed that when only the lower-order
transactional Contingent Reward items were included in a hierarchical
regression analysis, the transformational scale augmented the Contingent
Reward scale in predicting unit performance over time. However, when the
recognition items were included in the Contingent Reward scale, the
transformational scale did not significantly augment that Contingent Reward
scale in predicting unit performance.
   The MLQ has gone through a number of revisions to address concerns about
its psychometric properties (Yukl, 1999). Yet, by revising the items and
scales to address these concerns, we also run into the potential problem of
not being able to replicate earlier findings due to different items being
included across survey instruments. However we do need to reiterate, that
by and large, our results remain consistent with the earlier meta-analytic
findings. However, would recommend that future research examine the
components of the transactional scales to see if the lower and higher-order
distinction can be reliably obtained across different samples and
organizational contexts.
   Confirming earlier findings, our results are consistent with Lowe et al.
(1996) who reported consistently higher correlations with effectiveness in
Public as compared to Private organizations.  In the current meta-analysis,
the relationships for Public versus Private were higher for Attributed
Charisma, although the coefficients were very close on an absolute basis.
However, the relationships reported for Idealized Influence, Inspirational
Motivation, Intellectual Stimulation, and Individualized Consideration were
higher in private organizations in the present study.
Limitations and Future Directions
      As careful as one can be, a meta-analysis is only as good as the
studies that are available to conduct an empirical review of the
literature. Since the last meta-analysis was conducted, there has been less
emphasis in this literature on collecting more 'objective' measures of
performance effectiveness. We suggest that future research on the full
range model and MLQ must now begin to focus on collecting a broader range
of independent and objective measures collected at the same time as the
leadership scales, as well as over time, allowing future research to
examine the links explored in this study using a longitudinal framework.
      In addition to collecting measures of objective performance, it also
will be helpful for the next meta-analysis to have measures of performance
which tap both individual and group levels of extra effort or performance
beyond expectations. Of course, building a broader data base with objective
measures is the primary goal, however over time, tapping measures that
might be more sensitive to the influence of transformational versus
transactional leadership, may help to advance this theory more rapidly.
Specifically, a fundamental proposition in Bass (1985) writings is that
transformational leadership will augment transactional in predicting
performance. Gathering objective measures that tap into performance around
stretch goals or extreme criteria, will allow future researchers to examine
this fundamental proposition in Bass' work.
      There is also sufficient theoretical justification to suggest that
transformational leadership impacts on followers in ways that are different
than transactional styles of leadership. Thus to examine the black box in
which followers are 'transformed', we suggest that future research
concentrate on measuring some of the following outcome measures:
    . Using the per person productivity (ppp) rates and trends over time to
      track fundamental improvements and changes in performance.
    . Examining growth rates in followers' knowledge, learning capacity,
      motivation to lead, self and collective-efficacy.
    .  Examining as an outcome measure followers' levels of moral reasoning,
      willingness to self-sacrifice, ethical standards, concern for the
      community, are outcomes that are all theoretically linked to basic
      propositions which Burns (1978) and Bass (1985) used to differentiate
      transformational versus transactional leaders. Specifically, if
      transforming leaders are morally uplifting then we should examine
      moral reasoning as an outcome measure.
    . To the extent transformational leaders develop followers into leaders,
      than we should be examining the leadership qualities/styles of
      followers over time, as an outcome measure.
    . As more leaders lead virtually and at a distance, we need to begin to
      examine how each of the styles of leadership is related to performance
      over time and distance.
    . As noted by Lowe and Gardner (2000), the field of leadership studies
      is still by and large dominated by work completed with samples in the
      United States. Future research needs to explore how the relationships
      between these leadership styles and outcomes vary as a consequence of
      culture.
    . There are only a relatively handful of studies that have examined the
      relationship between leadership style and strategic organizational
      performance (see Waldman and Javidan in this volume for a review.)
      Future research needs to examine the relationship between the full
      range of leadership styles and various measures of firm performance
      over time, at the most senior levels of both public and private
      organizations.
                        Conclusions and Implications
   Any researcher going through this coding exercise cannot help but be
struck by the fact that there are still too few experimental studies,
studies using objective measures, studies exploring distant rather than
proximal leaders, studies considering work unit maturity, hierarchical
level and other environmental factors such as the rate of change,
technology intensity, cross cultural differences and gender differences to
perform a meta-analysis. However, each time one goes through this exercise
and points to what is missing, the current and future generation of
scholars are alerted to the areas that require further attention and data
collection. We suspect that the results reported here, and the areas that
we could not explore, will in combination provide further impetus to fill
in the blanks to offer yet another assessment of this emerging paradigm of
leadership. And in so doing, we hope to advance the field of leadership and
broaden potentially what constitutes the full range of styles and criterion
measures that can be explored.

                                 References

Antonakis, J. & House, R.J. (in press).  The full-range leadership theory:
The way
      forward. In B.J. Avolio, & F.J. Yammarino (eds.), Transformational
      and charismatic leadership: The road ahead.  Elsevier Science Inc.

Avolio, B, J.  (1999). Full leadership development:  Building the vital
      forces in organizations, Thousand Oaks: Sage.

Bass, B. M.  (1985).  Leadership and performance beyond expectations.  New
      York: Free Press.

Bass, B.M. (1998).  Transformational leadership: Industrial, military and
      educational impact. NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates

Bass, B.M., Avolio, B.J., Jung, D.I., & Berson, Y. Predicting unit
      performance by assessing transformational and transactional
      leadership. (In press, Journal of Applied Psychology, 2002).

Burns, J.M. (1978).  Leadership.  NY: Free Press.

Conger, J. A. & Kanungo, R. N.  (1998). Charismatic leadership in
      organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage

DeGroot, T., Kiker, D. S. and Cross, T. C.  (2000). A meta-analysis to
      review organizational outcomes related to charismatic leadership.
      Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences, 17, 357-371.


Gaspar, R.  (1992).  Transformational leadership:  An integrative review of
      the literature.  Unpublished doctoral dissertation, Western Michigan
      University, Kalamazoo.

Goodwin, V.L., Wofford, J.C., & Whittington, J.L. (2001). A theoretical and
      empirical extension to the transformational leadership construct.
      Journal of Organizational Behavior, 22, 759-774.

House, R. J., & Aditya, R. N. (1997). The social scientific study of
      leadership: Quo vadis? Journal of Management, 23, 409-473.

Hunt, J. G. (1999). Transformational/Charismatic leadership's
      transformation of the field: an historical essay. The Leadership
      Quarterly, 10, 129-144

Judge, T. A. Thoresen, C. J.,Bono, J E., & Patton, G. K.  (2001). The job
      satisfaction-job performance relationship: A qualitative and
      quantitative Psychological Bulletin.  127, 376-407

Landy, F. J. (1989). Psychology of work behavior. (Pacific Grove, CA:
      Brooks/Cole)

Lowe, K. B., Kroeck, K. G., & Sivasubramaniam, N. (1996). Effectiveness
      correlates of transformation and transactional leadership: A meta-
      analytic review of the MLQ literature. The Leadership Quarterly, 7,
      385-425.

Lowe, K. B. & Gardner, W. L.  (2000).  A decade of The Leadership
      Quarterly:  Contributions and challenges for the future.  The
      Leadership Quarterly, 11,  459-514

Nunally, J. C.  (1978).  Psychometric theory. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Onnen, M.K. (1987).  The relationship of clergy leadership characteristics
      to growing or declining churches.  Unpublished doctoral dissertation,
      University of Louisville, Louisville.

Podsakoff, P.M., MacKenzie, S. B., Moorman, R.H. & Fetter, R.  (1990).
      Transformational leader behaviors and their effects on followers'
      trust in leader, satisfaction, and organizational citizenship
      behaviors, The Leadership Quarterly, 1, 107-142.

Schmidt, N. W. & Klimoski, R. J.  (1991).  Research methods in human
      resources management, Cincinnati: Southwestern Publishing.

Yukl, G. (1999). An evaluation of conceptual weaknesses in transformational
      and charismatic leadership theories. Leadership Quarterly, 10, 285-
      305.

Wanous, J. P., Sullivan, S.E., and Malinak, J. (1989).  The role of
      judgment calls in meta-analysis.  Journal of Applied Psychology, 74,
      259-264.

Waldman, D.A., & Javidan, M. (in press).  Charismatic leadership at the
strategic
      level: Taking a new look at upper echelons theory.  In  B.J. Avolio,
      & F.J. Yammarino (eds.), Transformational and charismatic leadership:
      The road ahead. Elsevier Science Inc.



                     Reference Studies in Meta-analyses

Avolio, B.J., Howell, J.M. & Sosik, J.J. (1999). A funny thing  happened  on
   the way to the bottom line: humor as  a  moderator  of  leadership  style
   effects. Academy of Management Journal, 42, 219-227.

Avolio, B.J., Jung, D., Murry, W. &  Sivasubramaniam,  N.  (1996).  Building
   Highly  Developed  Teams:  Focusing  on  Shared   Leadership   Processes,
   Efficacy, Trust, and Performance. Advances in  Interdisciplinary  Studies
   of Work Teams, Vol. 3, 173-209. JAI Press.

Avolio,  B.J.,  Sivasubramaniam,  N.,  Murry,  W.D.  &  Jung,  D.I.  (1996).
   Assessing team leadership and predicting group  performance.  Unpublished
   manuscript.

Avolio, B.J., Bass, B.M. & Berson, Y. (2000). Leadership and its  impact  on
   platoon readiness at Joint Readiness Training Center (JRTC).  Unpublished
   manuscript.

Bass, B.M., Avolio, B.J., Jung, D. &  Berson,  Y.  (1999).  Predicting  Unit
   Performance by Assessing Transformational and  Transactional  Leadership.
   Unpublished manuscript.

Bayless, R.R. (1996). The  identification  of  leadership  styles  of  large
   group music ensemble leaders and  their  use  as  predictors  of  teacher
   effectiveness. Unpublished Dissertation. Kent State Univ, USA.

Brown, F.W. & Dodd, N.G. (1999). Rally the troops or make the trains run  on
   time: the relative importance and interaction of  contingent  reward  and
   transformational  leadership.  Leadership  &   Organization   Development
   Journal, 20, 291-299.

Bycio, P., Hackett, R.D. &  Allen,  J.S.  (1995).   Further  Assessments  of
   Bass's (1985) Conceptualization  of  Transactional  and  Transformational
   Leadership. Journal of Applied Psychology, 80, 468-478.

Commer, L.B., Jolson, M.A., Dubinssky, A.J. & Yammarino, F.J. (1995).   When
   the sales manager is  a  woman:  an  exploration  into  the  relationship
   between salespeople's gender and their responses  to  leadership  styles.
   Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 15, 17-32.

Daughtry, L.H. (1995). Vocational administrator leadership effectiveness  as
   a function of gender  and  leadership  style.  Unpublished  Dissertation.
   Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA.

Doherty, A.J., & K.E. Danylchuk. (1996). Transformational and  transactional
   leadership in interuniversity  athletics  management.  Journal  of  Sport
   Management 10, 292-309.
Dubinsky, A.J., Yammarino,  F.J.,  Jolson,  M.A.  &  Spangler,  W.D.  (1995)
   Transformational  leadership:   an   initial   investigation   in   sales
   management. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 15, 17-31.

Elliot, R. & Albert, K. (2000).  An  investigation  of  the  Australian  MLQ
   norms database [Draft Document for Internal  Research  Review].  MLQ  Pty
   Ltd.

Elliot, R.  &  Albert,  K.  (2000).  Predicting  performance  outcomes  from
   transformational behaviors and rater congruence.  Unpublished manuscript.

Garcia, J.L. (1995) Transformational leadership  processes  and  salesperson
   performance effectiveness: A  theoretical  model  and  partial  empirical
   examination. Unpublished Dissertation. The Fielding Institute. USA.

Geyer, A.L.J. &  Steyrer,  J.M.  (1998).   Transformational  leadership  and
   objective performance in  banks.  Applied  Psychology:  An  International
   Review, 47, 397-420.

Geyer,  A.L.J.  &  Steyrer,  J.M.  (undated)  Transformational   leadership,
   classical leadership dimensions and performance  indicators  in  savings-
   banks. Unpublished manuscript.

Gunigundo,  M.S.T.  (1998).  An  exploration  of  the  relationship  between
   principal leadership  style  and  student  academic  achievement  in  the
   Philippines. Unpublished Dissertation.  Louisiana  State  University  and
   Agricultural and Mechanical College, USA.

Howell, J.M. & Hall-Merenda, K.E. (1999). The ties that bind: the impact  of
   leader-member exchange, transformational  and  transactional  leadership,
   and distance on  predicting  follower  performance.  Journal  of  Applied
   Psychology, 84, 680-694.

Hult, G.T.M., Ferrell, O.C. & Schul,  P.L.  (1998).  The  effect  of  global
   leadership on purchasing process outcomes. European Journal of Marketing,
   32, 1029-1050.

Judge, T.A. & Bono,  J.E.  (2000).  Five-factor  model  of  personality  and
   transformational leadership. Journal of Applied  Psychology,  85:5,  751-
   765.

Judge,  T.A.  &  Bono,  J.    (2000).   Personality   and   transformational
   leadership. Unpublished manuscript.

Jung, D. & Avolio, B.J. (2000).  Opening  the  black  box:  an  experimental
   investigation of the mediating effects of trust and value  congruence  on
   transformational and transactional leadership. Journal of  Organizational
   Behavior, 21, 949-964.

Jung, D. &  Avolio,  B.J.  (1998).  An  experimental  investigation  of  the
   mediating effects of trust and value congruence on  transformational  and
   transactional  leadership:  A  multicultural   perspective.   Unpublished
   manuscript.

Jung, D. &  Avolio,  B.J.   (1998).  Transformational  leadership  and  it's
   effects on group processes and performance among  Caucasian-  and  Asian-
   Americans. Unpublished manuscript.

Jung, D. I. (1997). Effects of different leadership  styles  and  followers'
   cultural orientations on performance under  various  task  structure  and
   reward allocation conditions. Unpublished Dissertation. State  University
   of New York at Binghamton, USA.

Kane, T.D. & Tremble, T.R.  (2000). Transformational Leadership  Effects  at
   Different Levels of the Army. Military Psychology, 12, 137-160.

Koh,  W.L.,  Steers,  R.M.  &  Terborg,  J.R.  (1995).     The  effects   of
   transformational leadership on teacher attitudes and student  performance
   in Singapore. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 16, 319-333.

Medley, F. & Larochelle, D.R. (1995). Transformational  leadership  and  job
   satisfaction. Nursing Management: 26, 9.

Muenjohn, N. (2000).   The effect of culture on the leadership  behavior  of
   Australian expatriate managers  in  Thailand.  Unpublished  Dissertation.
   Victoria University of Technology, Australia.

Nischan,  T.P.  (1997).  Transformational  leadership  as  a  predictor   of
   effectiveness, extra effort, and  satisfaction  in  a  community  college
   classroom  environment.  Unpublished  Dissertation.   Nova   Southeastern
   University, USA.

Peters,  T.J.  (1997).  Transactional   and   transformational   leadership:
   predictors  of  employee  satisfaction,  commitment,  and   productivity.
   Unpublished Dissertation. Marquette University, USA.

Pillai,  R.,  Schriesheim,  C.A.  &   Williams,   E.S.   (1999).    Fairness
   perceptions and trust as mediators for transformational and transactional
   leadership: a two-sample study. Journal of Management, 25, 897-933.

Russell,  R.G.  (1996).  The  relationship  between   transformational   and
   transactional  leadership  styles  and  employee   turnover   intentions.
   Unpublished Dissertation. Nova Southeastern University, USA.

Sosik, J.J. (1997). Effects of Transformational Leadership and anonymity  on
   idea  generation  in  computer-mediated  groups.  Group  &   Organization
   Management, 22, 460-487

Sosik, J.J., Avolio, B.J., Kahai, S.S.  &  Jung,  D.I.  (1998).    Computer-
   Supported  Work  Group   Potency   and   Effectiveness:   The   Role   of
   transformational  leadership,  anonymity,   and   task   interdependence.
   Computers in Human Behavior, 14, 491-511.

Sosik, J.J., Avolio, B.J. & Kahai, S.S. (1998). Inspiring Group  Creativity:
   Comparing Anonymous and Identified Electronic Brainstorming. Small  Group
   Research, 29, 3-31.

Sosik,  J.J.,  Kahai,  S.S.  &  Avolio,  B.J.  (1999).   Leadership   style,
   anonymity,  and  creativity  in  group  decision  support  systems:   the
   mediating role of optimal flow. Journal of Creative Behavior, 33, 227-256

Sosik, J.J., Kahai, S.S. & Avolio, B.J. (1998). Transformational  leadership
   and dimensions of creativity: motivating  idea  generation  in  computer-
   mediated groups. Creativity Research Journal, 11, 111-121.

Sosik, J.J.  (1995).  The  impact  of  leadership  style  and  anonymity  on
   performance, creative output, and satisfaction in GDSS-supported  groups.
   Unpublished Dissertation. State University of New York, USA.

Srisilpsophon,  P.  (1999).  Transformational  leadership  and   performance
   outcomes  of  multinational   corporations   in   Thailand.   Unpublished
   Dissertation. Nova Southeastern University, USA.

Steeves, R. (1997).   Why leaders are effective: an examination into  leader
   developmental level and leader-follower developmental fit  as  predictors
   of  effective  leadership.   Unpublished   Dissertation.   The   Fielding
   Institute, USA.

Stepp, P.L. Cho, H. & Chung, S. (1997). Perceived differences in  leadership
   styles of people of color: transformational or transactional? Unpublished
   manuscript.

Tracey,  J.B.  &  Hinkin,  T.R.  (1998).  Transformational   leadership   or
   effective managerial practices? Group &  Organizational  Management,  23,
   220-236.

Tucker,  M.L.,  McCarthy,  A.M.  &  Jones,  M.C.  (1999).  Women   and   men
   politicians: are some of the  best  leaders  dissatisfied?  Leadership  &
   Organization Development, 20, 285-290.

VanDoren, E. (1998). The  relationship  between  leadership/followership  in
   staff nurses and employment setting.  Unpublished  Dissertation.  Western
   Michigan University, USA.

Weierter,  S.  (1995).   Transformational   leadership   and   transactional
   substitutes: An exploratory analysis. Unpublished manuscript.

Wofford, J.C., Goodwin, V.L. & Whittington, J.L. (1998). A field study of  a
   cognitive approach to understanding  transformational  and  transactional
   leadership. Leadership Quarterly, 9, 1.




                                   Table 1
                            Overall Meta-Analysis

                              Scale1 | |Sample
                              Size2 |Mean3 |Std
                                Dev.3 |Scale
                             Alpha3 |Number of r
                 Coefficient4 |Number of studies4 |Range of
                                      r
                           Coefficients |Mean Raw
                              r |Mean Corrected
                             r |95% Credibility
                               Interval6 |95%
                                 Confidence
Interval6 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Attributed
                              Charisma (AC) | |
                                   9538 |
                                   2.75 |
                                    .79 |
                                    .82 |
                                    65 |
                                    17 |
                                .93 to -.67 |
                                    .54 |
                                    .66 |
                                1.00 to .08 |
   .77 to .56 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Idealized Influence (II) | |
                                   8608 |
                                   2.76 |
                                    .75 |
                                    .72 |
                                    68 |
                                    16 |
                                .87 to -.16 |
                                    .50 |
                                    .66 |
                               1.00 to -.22 |
 .75 to .58 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Inspirational Motivation (IM) | |
                                   12009 |
                                   2.74 |
                                    .77 |
                                    .86 |
                                    101 |
                                    22 |
                                .93 to -.14 |
                                    .46 |
                                    .56 |
                                1.00 to .02 |
.66 to .46 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Intellectual
                            Stimulation (IS) | |
                                   14290 |
                                   2.43 |
                                    .79 |
                                    .83 |
                                    113 |
                                    26 |
                                .90 to -.25 |
                                    .42 |
                                    .52 |
                               1.00 to -.03 |
.60 to .43 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Individualized
                            Consideratio (IC) | |
                                   14842 |
                                   2.61 |
                                    .85 |
                                    .82 |
                                    116 |
                                    27 |
                                .93 to -.31 |
                                    .44 |
                                    .55 |
                               1.00 to -.02 |
 .64 to .46 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Transformational Ldrshp (TFL) | |
                                   9721 |
                                   3.05 |
                                    .89 |
                                    .93 |
                                    79 |
                                    23 |
                                .87 to -.19 |
                                    .40 |
                                    .46 |
                               1.00 to -.14 |
.65 to .42 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Contingent
                               Reward (CR) | |
                                   18682 |
                                   2.42 |
                                    .75 |
                                    .80 |
                                    120 |
                                    27 |
                                .89 to -.34 |
                                    .41 |
                                    .51 |
                               1.10 to -.10 |
 .60 to .41 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Mgmt-by-Except Active (MBEA) | |
                                   13895 |
                                   1.93 |
                                    .81 |
                                    .75 |
                                    90 |
                                    20 |
                                .50 to -.62 |
                                    .04 |
                                    .05 |
                                .38 to -.29 |
 .11 to -.02 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Mgmt-by-Except Passive (MBEP) |
                                      |
                                   12386 |
                                   1.70 |
                                    .67 |
                                    .69 |
                                    68 |
                                    17 |
                                .43 to -.76 |
                                   -.26 |
                                   -.34 |
                                .04 to -.73 |
    -.27 to -.42 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Mgmt-by-Except (MBE) | |
                                   3036 |
                                   2.12 |
                                    .29 |
                                    .76 |
                                    17 |
                                     5 |
                                .50 to -.53 |
                                   -.16 |
                                   -.21 |
                                .11 to -.52 |
     -.01 to -.36 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Lassiez Faire (LF) | |
                                   11564 |
                                    .79 |
                                    .63 |
                                    .76 |
                                    92 |
                                    21 |
                                .55 to -.72 |
                                   -.30 |
                                   -.38 |
-.02 to -.75 |
 -.36 to -.51 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |Transactional Ldrship (TRL) | |
                                   2667 |
                                   2.94 |
                                    .76 |
                                    .87 |
                                    33 |
                                    10 |
                                .55 to -.18 |
                                    .17 |
                                    .20 |
                                .46 to -.06 |
.31 to .15 | |
1  Because only one coefficient was reported for the scales (1) Management
By Exception & Lassiez Faire and (2) Charismatic Leadership they cannot be
meta-analyzed and are thus not reported here.
2  Unique sample size across all studies.
3  Mean, standard deviation, and reliability weighted by sample size.
4  Coefficients exceeds number of studies due to multiple criterion
variables.  For studies correlating one set of leadership ratings to
multiple criteria, coefficients are averaged to obtain a composite
correlation coefficient.  Composite criteria maintain assumptions of sample
independence required in meta-analysis. The impact of different criterion
measures on the correlation of leadership ratings to outcomes may be
investigated further if credibility interval analysis suggests that
moderators may be present (see footnote six)
5  Corrected for attenuation due to measurement of the independent and
dependent variable
6  Credibility intervals indicate the extent to which validity findings can
be generalized and indicate moderators when large or include zero.
Confidence intervals assess the accuracy of the mean effect size.

                                   Table 2
     The Relationship of MLQ Scales with Effectiveness and Satisfaction

                          Scale1 |Moderator |Sample
                              Size2 |Mean3 |Std
                                Dev.3 |Scale
                             Alpha3 |Number of r
                 Coefficient4 |Number of studies4 |Range of
                                      r
                           Coefficients |Mean Raw
                              r |Mean Corrected
                             r |95% Credibility
                               Interval6 |95%
                                 Confidence
 Interval6 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |AC |Effectiveness |9201 |2.76 |.78
|.82 |45 |16 |.89 to -.20 |.55 |.68 |1.00 to .12 |.80 to .57 | |
 |Satisfaction |5966 |2.74 |.85 |.78 |18 |10 |.93 to -.14 |.72 |.90 |1.00 to
   .54 |1.00 to .81 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |II |Effectiveness |8196
|2.78 |.74 |.72 |43 |14 |.87 to -.16 |.52 |.68 |1.00 to .25 |.77 to .59 | |
 |Satisfaction |6818 |2.77 |.73 |.68 |20 |12 |.83 to -.14 |.54 |.73 |1.00 to
   .35 |.82 to .65 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |IM |Effectiveness |11898
|2.75 |.76 |.86 |70 |19 |.85 to -.14 |.46 |.55 |1.00 to .00 |.66 to .44 | |
 |Satisfaction |6600 |2.72 |.85 |.85 |24 |14 |.93 to -.12 |.62 |.75 |1.00 to
   .38 |.83 to .67 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |IS |Effectiveness |13392
|2.43 |.79 |.84 |76 |23 |.90 to -.19 |.47 |.57 |1.00 to .17 |.68 to .48 | |
 |Satisfaction |8570 |2.37 |.84 |.81 |26 |16 |.86 to -.12 |.58 |.73 |1.00 to
   .31 |.81 to .65 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |IC |Effectiveness |14364
|2.61 |.85 |.82 |82 |24 |.89 to -.27 |.47 |.59 |1.00 to .04 |.68 to .49 | |
 |Satisfaction |8570 |2.58 |.87 |.78 |26 |16 |.93 to -.24 |.64 |.81 |1.00 to
   .36 |.90 to .72 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |TFL |Effectiveness |7262
|3.08 |.84 |.93 |45 |18 |.87 to -.19 |.43 |.50 |1.00 to -.17 |.63 to .36 |
  | |Satisfaction |4034 |3.04 |.88 |.95 |19 |13 |.87 to -.02 |.35 |.40 |.95
 to -.15 |.53 to .26 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |CR |Effectiveness |16578
|2.36 |.76 |.81 |80 |24 |.87 to -.34 |.45 |.56 |1.00 to -.03 |.66 to .46 |
  | |Satisfaction |9672 |2.46 |.79 |.77 |30 |17 |.89 to .08 |.60 |.76 |1.00
    to .31 |.85 to .68 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |MBEA |Effectiveness
 |12638 |1.91 |.82 |.74 |65 |18 |.50 to -.39 |.06 |.08 |.41 to -.25 |.15 to
  .02 | | |Satisfaction |7523 |1.79 |.88 |.77 |19 |13 |.35 to -.62 |-.07 |-
.09 |.30 to -.49 |-.01 to -.18 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |MBEP
 |Effectiveness |11761 |1.50 |.69 |67 |44 |15 |.36 to -.76 |-.28 |-.38 |-.11
 to -.65 |-.32 to -.43 | | |Satisfaction |7335 |1.72 |.72 |.72 |18 |12 |.43
 to -.69 |-.35 |-.46 |.13 to -1.00 |-.33 to -.59 | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
 | |MBE |Effectiveness |3006 |2.06 |.45 |.75 |8 |4 |.50 to -.53 |-.23 |-.30
  |-.06 to -.54 |-.20 to -.40 | | |Satisfaction |1550 |2.76 |.51 |.62 |5 |3
 |.13 to -.36 |-.31 |-.44 |-.08 to -.80 |-.28 to -.60 | | | | | | | | | | |
 | | | | |LF |Effectiveness |11547 |.81 |.63 |.76 |70 |21 |.51 to -.69 |-.29
  |-.37 |-.03 to -.70 |-.31 to -.43 | | |Satisfaction |7199 |.82 |.68 |.76
 |19 |13 |.55 to -.73 |-.41 |-.53 |.07 to -1.00 |.40 to -.66 | | | | | | | |
 | | | | | | | |TRL |Effectiveness |1646 |2.74 |.64 |.83 |18 |7 |.55 to -.18
 |.15 |.19 |.47 to -.09 |.29 to .09 | | |Satisfaction |1347 |3.64 |.73 |.81
|5 |4 |.41 to .04 |.17 |.21 |.39 to .02 |.31 to .11 | |
1  Because only one coefficient was reported for the scales (1) Management
By Exception & Lazziez Faire and (2) Charismatic Leadership they cannot be
meta-analyzed and are thus not reported here.
2  Unique sample size across all studies.
3  Mean, standard deviation, and reliability weighted by sample size.
4  Coefficients exceeds number of studies due to multiple criterion
variables.  For studies correlating one set of leadership ratings to
multiple criteria, coefficients are averaged to obtain a composite
correlation coefficient.  Composite criteria maintain assumptions of sample
independence required in meta-analysis. The impact of different criterion
measures on the correlation of leadership ratings to outcomes may be
investigated further if credibility interval analysis suggests that
moderators may be present (see footnote six)
5  Corrected for attenuation due to measurement of the independent and
dependent variable
6  Credibility intervals indicate the extent to which validity findings can
be generalized and indicate moderators when large or include zero.
Confidence intervals assess the accuracy of the mean effect size.
                                   Table 3
  The Moderating Effect of Type of Organization on the Relationship of the
                        MLQ Scales and Effectiveness

                          Scale1 |Moderator |Sample
                              Size2 |Mean3 |Std
                                Dev.3 |Scale
                             Alpha3 |Number of r
                 Coefficient4 |Number of studies4 |Range of
                                      r
                           Coefficients |Mean Raw
                              r |Mean Corrected
                             r |95% Credibility
                               Interval6 |95%
                                 Confidence
  Interval6 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |AC |Public |2633 |2.70 |.82 |.78
  |21 |7 |.86 to -.20 |.60 |.76 |1.00 to .19 |.93 to .59 | | |Private |6432
|2.78 |.77 |.85 |21 |8 |.89 to -.19 |.53 |.65 |1.00 to .09 |.81 to .49 | |
 | | | | | | | | | | | | | |II |Public |2307 |2.67 |.82 |.69 |18 |4 |.75 to
 -.12 |.49 |.66 |1.00 to .22 |.83 to .49 | | |Private |5753 |2.83 |.71 |.73
 |23 |9 |.87 to -.16 |.53 |.70 |1.00 to .26 |.81 to .58 | | | | | | | | | |
  | | | | | |IM |Public |4522 |2.61 |.90 |.86 |42 |7 |79 to -.09 |.40 |.48
  |1.00 to -.16 |.68 to .28 | | |Private |7239 |2.79 |.72 |.86 |26 |11 |.85
to -.14 |.50 |.60 |1.00 to .12 |.72 to .48 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
   |IS |Public |4446 |2.51 |.77 |.79 |44 |9 |76 to -.11 |.40 |.50 |1.00 to
  -.16 |.68 to .33 | | |Private |7435 |2.59 |.73 |.85 |28 |12 |.90 to -.19
    |.48 |.58 |1.00 to .08 |.70 to .46 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |IC
   |Public |4446 |2.77 |84 |79 |44 |9 |.78 to -.33 |.38 |.48 |1.00 to -.16
  |.65 to .31 | | |Private |8406 |2.63 |.85 |.83 |34 |13 |.89 to -.27 |.50
  |.61 |1.00 to .09 |.73 to .49 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |TFL |Public
 |5561 |3.02 |.74 |.92 |34 |13 |.83 to -.19 |.45 |.53 |1.00 to -.10 |.68 to
 .38 | | |Private |1701 |3.25 |1.09 |.93 |11 |5 |.87 to .02 |.32 |.37 |1.00
  to -.32 |.64 to .10 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |CR |Public |7330 |2.28
     |.78 |.82 |45 |9 |.83 to -.08 |43 |53 |1.00 to -.11 |.71 to .36 | |
 |Private |7737 |2.64 |.75 |.81 |31 |13 |.87 to -.34 |.45 |.56 |1.00 to -.01
  |.69 to .43 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |MBEA |Public |5289 |1.78 |.91
   |.74 |18 |7 |.50 to -.11 |10 |13 |.47 to -.22 |.23 to -.02 | | |Private
  |7213 |2.04 |.72 |.76 |45 |10 |.33 to -.39 |.03 |.04 |.37 to -.29 |.13 to
  .04 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |MBEP |Public |5584 |1.84 |.64 |.80 |21
 |6 |.01 to -.76 |-.30 |-.38 |-.34 to -.41 |-.35 to -.41 | | |Private |6041
 |1.11 |.75 |.64 |21 |8 |.36 to -.62 |-.26 |-.36 |.01 to -.73 |-.26 to -.46
  | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |MBE |Public |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A
  |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A | | |Private |1630 |N/A |N/A |.77 |6 |3 |.50 to
.53 |-.18 |-.23 |.05 to -.51 |-.09 to -.37 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
 |LF |Public |4635 |.78 |.53 |.78 |43 |10 |.14 to -.66 |-.30 |-.38 |-.29 to
-.46 |-.34 to -.41 | | |Private |6687 |.75 |.72 |.67 |25 |10 |.51 to -.69 |-
   .28 |-.36 |.07 to -.80 |-.26 to -.47 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |TRL
  |Public |1552 |2.74 |.64 |.83 |15 |6 |.55 to -.18 |.16 |.20 |.49 to -.09
 |.31 to .09 | | |Private |94 |N/A |N/A |N/A |3 |1 |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A
| |
1  Because only one coefficient was reported for the scales (1) Management
By Exception & Lazziez Faire and (2) Charismatic Leadership they cannot be
meta-analyzed and are thus not reported here.
2  Unique sample size across all studies.
3  Mean, standard deviation, and reliability weighted by sample size.
4  Coefficients exceeds number of studies due to multiple criterion
variables.  For studies correlating one set of leadership ratings to
multiple criteria, coefficients are averaged to obtain a composite
correlation coefficient.  Composite criteria maintain assumptions of sample
independence required in meta-analysis. The impact of different criterion
measures on the correlation of leadership ratings to outcomes may be
investigated further if credibility interval analysis suggests that
moderators may be present (see footnote six)
5  Corrected for attenuation due to measurement of the independent and
dependent variable
6  Credibility intervals indicate the extent to which validity findings can
be generalized and indicate moderators when large or include zero.
Confidence intervals assess the accuracy of the mean effect size.
                                   Table 4
 The Moderating Effect of Type of Criterion Measurement on the Relationship
                    Between MLQ Scales and Effectiveness

                          Scale1 |Moderator |Sample
                              Size2 |Mean3 |Std
                                Dev.3 |Scale
                             Alpha3 |Number of r
                 Coefficient4 |Number of studies4 |Range of
                                      r
                           Coefficients |Mean Raw
                              r |Mean Corrected
                             r |95% Credibility
                               Interval6 |95%
                                 Confidence
  Interval6 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |AC |Subjective |6826 |2.80 |.84
|.79 |39 |14 |.89 to -.20 |.68 |.85 |1.00 to .48 |.93 to .77 | | |Objective
 |2375 |2.66 |.59 |.91 |6 |4 |.33 to -.08 |.19 |.23 |.39 to .06 |.31 to .14
 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |II |Subjective |7450 |2.80 |.73 |.71 |39 |14
  |.87 to -.12 |.58 |.76 |1.00 to .39 |.84 to .69 | | |Objective |632 |2.56
|.89 |.75 |4 |1 |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |IM
  |Subjective |7766 |2.79 |.82 |.85 |57 |18 |.85 to -.09 |.61 |.74 |1.00 to
  .38 |.82 to .67 | | |Objective |4132 |2.61 |.50 |.88 |13 |3 |.35 to -.14
|.17 |.20 |.44 to -.04 |.33 to .10 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |IS
  |Subjective |9944 |2.42 |.83 |.82 |62 |21 |.90 to -.11 |.58 |.71 |1.00 to
  .25 |.79 to .63 | | |Objective |3658 |2.48 |.55 |.90 |14 |5 |.58 to -.19
|.18 |.21 |.42 to .01 |.32 to .08 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |IC
 |Subjective |10216 |2.62 |.85 |.80 |65 |22 |.89 to -.27 |.60 |.75 |1.00 to
  .30 |.83 to .67 | | |Objective |4034 |2.56 |.90 |.89 |17 |6 |.50 to -.14
|.17 |.20 |.43 to -.02 |.29 to .12 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |TFL
  |Subjective |5474 |3.03 |.80 |.93 |26 |13 |.87 to .04 |.52 |.61 |1.00 to
 -.06 |.77 to .45 | | |Objective |1560 |3.31 |1.00 |.93 |19 |10 |.49 to -.19
|.10 |.11 |.26 to -.04 |.19 to .04 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |CR
 |Subjective |12475 |2.30 |.79 |.78 |62 |21 |.87 to -.31 |.56 |.70 |1.00 to
  .16 |.80 to .61 | | |Objective |4104 |2.58 |.60 |.89 |18 |7 |.43 to -.34
|.13 |.16 |.32 to .00 |.22 to .09 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |MBEA
  |Subjective |10621 |1.89 |.81 |.74 |53 |17 |.50 to -.39 |.08 |.10 |.44 to
  -.25 |.17 to .03 | | |Objective |2017 |2.18 |.96 |.77 |12 |3 |.13 to -.05
|.00 |.00 |.00 to .00 |.04 to -.04 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |MBEP
  |Subjective |10621 |1.89 |.81 |.74 |53 |17 |.50 to -.39 |.08 |.10 |.44 to
 -.25 |.17 to .03 | | |Objective |1097 |1.36 |.88 |.68 |6 |3 |.04 to -.20 |-
.05 |-.07 |.03 to -.17 |-.01 to -.13 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |MBE
  |Subjective |1550 |1.87 |.80 |.71 |7 |3 |.50 to -.53 |-.24 |-.32 |.03 to
 -.68 |-.16 to -.49 | | |Objective |1456 |2.15 |0 |.77 |1 |1 |N/A |N/A |N/A
 |NA |NA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |LF |Subjective |7852 |.90 |.67 |.76
|53 |18 |.51 to -69 |-.37 |-.47 |-.09 to -.86 |-.40 to -.55 | | |Objective
  |3582 |.50 |.49 |.75 |17 |6 |-.09 to -.28  |-.12 |-.15 |.03 to -.17 |-.10
   to -.21 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |TRL |Subjective |1049 |1.58 |.48
  |.84 |9 |4 |.55 to -.05 |.27 |.32 |.52 to .13 |.43 to .22 | | |Objective
  |597 |3.54 |.73 |.82 |9 |4 |.12 to -.18 |-.04 |-.05 |.14 to -.24 |.01 to
-.11 | |
1  Because only one coefficient was reported for the scales (1) Management
By Exception & Lazziez Faire and (2) Charismatic Leadership they cannot be
meta-analyzed and are thus not reported here.
2  Unique sample size across all studies.
3  Mean, standard deviation, and reliability weighted by sample size.
4  Coefficients exceeds number of studies due to multiple criterion
variables.  For studies correlating one set of leadership ratings to
multiple criteria, coefficients are averaged to obtain a composite
correlation coefficient.  Composite criteria maintain assumptions of sample
independence required in meta-analysis. The impact of different criterion
measures on the correlation of leadership ratings to outcomes may be
investigated further if credibility interval analysis suggests that
moderators may be present (see footnote six)
5  Corrected for attenuation due to measurement of the independent and
dependent variable
6  Credibility intervals indicate the extent to which validity findings can
be generalized and indicate moderators when large or include zero.
Confidence intervals assess the accuracy of the mean effect size.
                                   Table 5
 The Moderating Effect of Type of Criterion Measurement on the Relationship
                     Between MLQ Scales and Satisfaction

                          Scale1 |Moderator |Sample
                              Size2 |Mean3 |Std
                                Dev.3 |Scale
                             Alpha3 |Number of r
                 Coefficient4 |Number of studies4 |Range of
                                      r
                           Coefficients |Mean Raw
                              r |Mean Corrected
                             r |95% Credibility
                               Interval6 |95%
                                 Confidence
  Interval6 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |AC |Leader |5659 |2.76 |.85 |.78
 |17 |9 |.93 to -.14 |.73 |.92 |1.00 to .69 |1.00 to .83 | | |Job |307 |2.38
|.93 |.77 |1 |1 |.45 |.45 |.57 |N/A |N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |II
  |Leader |6511 |2.81 |.71 |.68 |17 |11 |.83 to -.14 |.57 |.77 |1.00 to .42
 |.85 to .69 | | |Job |907 |2.60 |.72 |.82 |3 |3 |.40 to .29 |.33 |.41 |.49
  to .32 |.46 to .35 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |IM |Leader |6293 |2.73
|.85 |.85 |21 |13 |.93 to -.12 |.64 |.78 |1.00 to .47 |.85 to .70 | | |Job
|907 |2.83 |.75 |.83 |3 |3 |.38 to .24 |.29 |.35 |.39 to .32 |.43 to .28 |
 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |IS |Leader |8167 |2.38 |.84 |.80 |23 |15 |.86
 to -.12 |.60 |.75 |1.00 to .38 |.83 to .67 | | |Job |907 |2.47 |.72 |.78 |3
 |3 |.42 to .22 |.29 |.36 |.54 to .20 |.47 to .26 | | | | | | | | | | | | |
 | | |IC |Leader |8263 |2.59 |.86 |.78 |23 |15 |93 to -24 |.66 |.83 |1.00 to
  .42 |.91 to .74 | | |Job |907 |2.58 |.80 |.77 |3 |3 |.48 to .26 |.33 |.43
  |.63 to .22 |.54 to .31 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |TFL |Leader |2547
|3.48 |.92 |.92 |10 |9 |.87 to -.02 |.49 |.57 |.96 to .18 |.69 to .45 | |
  |Job |2175 |2.95 |1.03 |.96 |9 |6 |.68 to .07 |.27 |.30 |.76 to -.15 |.47
 to .13 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |CR |Leader |8513 |2.47 |.80 |.77 |22
   |16 |.89 to .08 |.64 |.82 |1.00 to .46 |.89 to .74 | | |Job |2351 |2.85
 |.63 |.71 |8 |5 |.69 to .09 |.39 |.52 |.95 to .09 |.67 to .37 | | | | | | |
 | | | | | | | | |MBEA |Leader |6371 |1.73 |.92 |.77 |15 |11 |.35 to -.62 |-
  .10 |-.12 |.31 to -.55 |-.02 to -.23 | | |Job |1752 |1.86 |.67 |.76 |4 |4
 |.10 to -.18 |-.04 |-.05 |.14 to -.23 |.05 to -.14 | | | | | | | | | | | |
 | | | |MBEP |Leader |7028 |1.59 |.71 |.69 |15 |11 |.43 to -.69 |-.35 |-.47
  |.15 to -1.00 |-.32 to -.61 | | |Job |907 |1.60 |.69 |.76 |3 |3 |-.12 to
-.66 |-.31 |-.39 |-.23 to -1.00 |-.10 to -.68 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
 |MBE |Leader |1550 |2.26 |.51 |.62 |5 |3 |.13 to -.36 |-.31 |-.44 |-.08 to
  -.80 |-.28 to -.60 | | |Job |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A |N/A
  |N/A |N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |LF |Leader |7025 |.80 |.68 |.76
 |16 |12 |.55 to -.73 |-.43 |-.56 |.07 to -1.00 |-.41 to -.70 | | |Job |774
 |.82 |.56 |.74 |3 |3 |-.10 to -.21 |-.19 |-.24 |-.09 to -.39 |-.19 to -.29
 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |TRL |Leader |1347 |3.64 |.73 |.81 |5 |4 |.41
  to .04 |.17 |.21 |.39 to .02 |.31 to .11 | | |Job |642 |2.60 |.90 |.90 |4
|3 |.33 to .05 |.20 |.24 |.42 to .06 |.37 to .11 | |
1  Because only one coefficient was reported for the scales (1) Management
By Exception & Lazziez Faire and (2) Charismatic Leadership they cannot be
meta-analyzed and are thus not reported here.
2  Unique sample size across all studies.
3  Mean, standard deviation, and reliability weighted by sample size.
4  Coefficients exceeds number of studies due to multiple criterion
variables.  For studies correlating one set of leadership ratings to
multiple criteria, coefficients are averaged to obtain a composite
correlation coefficient.  Composite criteria maintain assumptions of sample
independence required in meta-analysis. The impact of different criterion
measures on the correlation of leadership ratings to outcomes may be
investigated further if credibility interval analysis suggests that
moderators may be present (see footnote six)
5  Corrected for attenuation due to measurement of the independent and
dependent variable
6  Credibility intervals indicate the extent to which validity findings can
be generalized and indicate moderators when large or include zero.
Confidence intervals assess the accuracy of the mean effect size.
