REVIEW PAPER
Review of Managerial Science (2024) 18:493–538
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11846-023-00649-6
Abstract
Entrepreneurship represents a key motor of economic growth, and entrepreneurial 
leadership (EL) represents a vital constituent thereof. However, its examination re­
mains factious, and integration with the wider leadership literature is fragmentary. 
EL is claimed by some as representing a construct distinct from extant leadership 
styles, even though the major contribution made by transformational leadership 
(TL) theory remains under-researched and under-reported. Furthermore, TL is often 
used to measure leaders in entrepreneurship, resulting in a lack of clarity regarding 
the relationship between TL and EL. Our study seeks to contribute to the literature 
by elucidating the distinction and overlap between the two leadership constructs, as 
currently defined by available questionnaires. To this end, conceptual work, current 
findings, and research practice are reviewed. Drawn from a final sample of 25 arti­
cles, our findings show appreciable conceptual divergence. However, questionnaires 
of EL overlap significantly with TL and are subject to validation and discriminant 
validity issues; many researchers furthermore continue to use TL questionnaires to 
measure EL. Very little compelling empirical evidence for divergent validity was 
found, though strong correlations between EL and TL were observed. Our study 
contributes an overview of EL from the viewpoint of leadership science, providing 
recommendations to entrepreneurship researchers examining EL. We suggest that 
future work should satisfy two main goals: the establishment of a conceptualization 
of EL which can empirically demonstrate divergent validity versus other, accepted 
measures of leadership, and the creation of a cogent and a specific theoretical model 
to support it.
Keywords  Entrepreneurial · Transformational · Leadership · Systematic Literature 
Review
Received: 19 May 2022 / Accepted: 2 March 2023 / Published online: 22 March 2023
© The Author(s) 2023
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review 
of distinction and overlap
Theo Émile Ravet-Brown1
 · Marco Furtner1
 · Andreas Kallmuenzer2
	
 Theo Émile Ravet-Brown
theo.ravet@uni.li
1	
Liechtenstein Business School, University of Liechtenstein, Vaduz 9490, Liechtenstein
2	
Department of Strategy, Excelia Business School, La Rochelle 17000, France
1 3
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
JEL Classification  L26 Entrepreneurship · M12 Personnel Management
1  Introduction
The study of entrepreneurial leadership (EL) examines those who set out to improve 
their circumstances by founding new enterprises (Hensellek et al. 2023), and by gath­
ering around them a group of like-minded followers who join them in realizing their 
vision (Liu et al. 2022). EL today presents a disparate array of conceptual and prac­
tical approaches to those interested in pinning down its measurement (Clark et al. 
2019). Research using the term includes anything from the procedural examination 
of leadership of entrepreneurial ventures (Freeman and Siegfried 2015), to strate­
gic considerations of the value of entrepreneurially-minded management in extant 
enterprises and their corporate venturing (Karol 2015; Niemann et al. 2022), to the 
behavioral delineation of a unique leadership style that is unalienably entrepreneur­
ial (Bagheri and Harrison 2020). However, mainstream leadership research diverges 
from employing these kinds of broad definitions (Reid et al. 2018). More concrete, 
quantifiable operationalizations of leadership styles, such as empowering leadership 
(Cheong et al. 2019) or transformational leadership (TL) (Bass and Avolio 1997) 
have long proven fruitful (Derue et al. 2011) and continue to be sought after (Hems­
horn de Sanchez et al. 2022). While some conceptual work on EL acknowledges this 
kind of convention (Leitch and Volery 2017), it rapidly swells to encompass a blend 
of interpersonal and strategic components (Bagheri and Harrison 2020). However, 
the importance to EL scholarship of arriving at a serviceable, shared definition is 
clear, as many scholars seek to measure EL as a distinct, operationalized style (e.g. 
Niemann et al. 2022). As leaders, entrepreneurs are undoubtedly a key ingredient in 
determining the viability of their idea and the success of the venture it begets (Liu et 
al. 2022; Tarí et al. 2023); their ability to marshal the resources needed for success, 
both human and non-human, is essential (Brush et al. 2001). In short, EL represents 
the crux of successful entrepreneurship (Faridian 2023), so how is it best measured? 
Is EL capturable through mainstream conceptions, as some have suggested (Vecchio 
2003), or does it require some unique, distinct construct? The examination of these 
questions has remained fragmented, and their answer has yet to be found (Clark et al. 
2019; Clark and Harrison 2019). Calls to integrate EL more closely with the field of 
leadership are not new (Antonakis and Autio 2012), even though a paucity of com­
prehensive integration of a theoretical framework persists from within mainstream 
leadership science into EL, such as the Full-Range Leadership Theory (FRLT; see 
Bass 1985; Bass and Avolio 1997). Conceptually, both TL and its parent theory, the 
FRLT, formulate leadership styles as a composition of concrete, visible behaviors and 
saliently displayed attributes, together constituting “a process whereby an individual 
influences a group of individuals to achieve a common goal” (Northouse 2018, p. 43). 
Current measures of EL however do not fully conform to this theoretical framework 
(c.f. Bagheri and Harrison 2020; Renko et al. 2015), despite the three prominent 
operationalizations of EL drawing considerably on TL (Bagheri and Harrison 2020; 
Gupta et al. 2004; Renko et al. 2015). In fact, even a cursory examination of these 
measures reveals marked item overlap with questionnaires for TL, an issue which 
1 3
494
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
authors in the field of EL have previously pointed to (Renko et al. 2015). This kind of 
admixture obstructs the establishment of a distinct, behaviorally proximal definition 
of EL.
This alone represents sufficient reason to consider an examination of TL and EL 
in concert. Aside from the overwhelming acceptance of TL in mainstream leadership 
literature (Deng et al. 2022), it continues to be used “routinely” in the examination 
of entrepreneurial leaders (Reid et al. 2018, p. 152). However, there are also con­
ceptual differences which several authors have pointed to. The question of scope, 
of “leadership in” versus “leadership of” organizations, is crucial (Antonakis and 
Autio 2012). For example, some authors point to behaviors such as opportunity rec­
ognition (Renko 2017) or recruitment (Bagheri and Harrison 2020) which are not 
inherently connected to the leadership of employees, as representing the key differ­
ences between TL and EL. A further dimension is context; some acknowledge the 
behavioral similarities between the two forms of leadership behaviors, but then point 
to the position of the entrepreneurial leader within a firm that experiences evolving 
environmental contingencies as a key antecedent for their ability to motivate follow­
ers (Gupta et al. 2004). The genesis of leadership concepts is thought by some to rep­
resent another point of difference; TL, developed purely within leadership science, 
is deemed somehow limited in its applicability or dynamism (Cai et al. 2019, p. 212; 
see for comparison Deng et al. 2022; Gerards et al. 2021; Jensen et al. 2020), while 
EL is considered as representing a new construct suitable for capturing leadership in 
the current era of economic upheaval and opportunity (e.g. Mehmood et al. 2021a; 
Röschke 2018a). While the progenitors of novel constructs convincingly claim their 
distinctiveness, originality, and usefulness, this does not necessarily make them so 
(Shaffer et al. 2016); proof of their divergent validity, and thus their utility, may be 
delivered only through empirical examination. Moreover, locating and positioning 
an entrepreneurial style within the field of extant leadership styles has long been 
called for (see Antonakis and Autio 2012, p. 203) particularly in light of suggestions 
that there may be nothing unique about EL at all (e.g. Vecchio 2003). Some scholars 
even argue that the two fields of entrepreneurship and leadership are phenomeno­
logical derivatives of an underlying, deeper construct, namely EL (Becherer et al. 
2008). Helpfully, several recent reviews have sought to bring clarity in one way or 
another (e.g. Clark et al. 2019; Faridian 2023; Harrison et al. 2018; Leitch and Har­
rison 2018a; Leitch and Harrison 2018b; Leitch and Volery 2017), even though these 
papers failed to substantively engage with the mainstream leadership discourse. A 
wide gap is also visible between these reviews, on the one hand, and review publica­
tions from within leadership science, on the other (e.g. Reid et al. 2018). Moreover, 
these EL-focused conceptual works refrained from engaging in an exhaustive exami­
nation of the overlap and differences between TL and EL, both comprehensively and 
at various levels of analysis, while combining the level of concept, measure, and 
findings. It is this contribution our paper seeks to provide.
In summary, the measurement of EL may be considered a key challenge facing 
entrepreneurship and leadership research; a distinct research gap exists around the 
current state of EL measurement, as well as its underlying theoretical conceptualiza­
tion (Clark and Harrison 2019). It is also unclear whether current conceptualizations 
are inherently reliant on TL, or whether they present as sufficiently distinct to permit 
1 3
495
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
the measurement of a unique construct. How does the theoretical work behind them 
support such a distinction; how do the commonly used questionnaires differ in con­
tent; and how do researchers in the field of EL view this distinction? In short, is it 
currently possible to measure EL without measuring TL? To provide an answer, three 
specific research questions (RQs) will be examined:
RQ1: What is the conceptual overlap between EL and TL?
RQ2: What is the overlap of content among the currently available operation­
alizations of EL and TL?
RQ3: How does empirical research in the measurement of leadership within the 
field of entrepreneurship research reflect this potential overlap?
The authors deem it essential to take this kind of holistic, multi-leveled view, and it 
is this gap that the present review seeks to close. Adhering to previous convention 
(Bichler et al. 2022; Kraus et al. 2020), we adopted a systematic literature review with 
content analysis as the method for shedding light on this fragmented field (Leitch 
and Volery 2017). In doing so, our paper offers three sets of results. With respect to 
RQ1, a marked lack of mutual interaction is found on the one hand between the main 
corpus of theoretical development in EL and, on the other, mainstream leadership 
research. This hampers attempts to embed EL within the wider leadership literature, 
particularly concerning its relationship with TL. Regarding RQ2, a deeper analysis 
of the three extant measures of EL found not only strong overlap with TL, but also 
profound issues in their conceptualization and validation, particularly with regard to 
their discriminant validity relating to other leadership styles. Finally, in answering 
RQ3, the review found no consensus on the use of EL questionnaires in the current 
literature; notably, it found TL-questionnaires to be widely used in the measurement 
of EL. It furthermore found conflicting statistical results indicating a clear lack of 
discriminant validity between measures of the two constructs.
2  Theoretical background
2.1  Transformational leadership
Current leadership literature has been described as vast (Klijn et al. 2022), vibrant 
(Gardner et al. 2020) and mature (Cogliser and Brigham 2004). The FRLT (Bass 
1985; Burns 1978), often termed the Full-Range Leadership Model, has long repre­
sented the dominant paradigm within it (Gardner et al. 2020). Implicitly, the FRLT 
subscribes to a model of leadership based on the interaction between followers and 
leaders. This interaction constitutes an influence process, the agent of which is the 
leader, and the objective of which is the motivation of individual followers towards 
the achievement of a shared goal (Banks et al. 2022). In other words, such concep­
tions of leadership are considered as constituting “an interactional phenomenon that 
unfolds through discrete observable behaviors” (Hemshorn de Sanchez et al. 2022, 
p. 342). This perspective may broadly be conflated with what Antonakis and Autio 
(2012) termed “leadership in” organizations, as opposed to the more strategically 
1 3
496
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
oriented “leadership of.” The conception of leadership as a granular, behavioral, 
interpersonal influence process forms the theoretical paradigm in which the present 
review remains grounded, especially since it informs most current, mainstream lead­
ership research, including the FRLT (Yukl 2013).
TL is the most active and effective style of leadership posited in the FRLT (e.g. 
Żywiołek et al. 2022). Furthermore, and in contrast to the closely related, simi­
larly effective, but poorly defined concept of charismatic leadership (Antonakis et 
al. 2016; House 1977), TL is clearly established to encompass four key dimensions 
based on Avolio (2010). First, idealized influence denotes a leader who is considered 
moral, trustworthy, and principled, and who displays a sense of purpose and power 
while reassuring, guiding, and ennobling their followers. Inspirational motivation, 
the second facet, is the evocation of motivation through the articulation of an engag­
ing, challenging, compelling vision of a shared future. This goes hand in hand with 
intellectual stimulation, the third constituent, which is essentially the furtherance of 
the ability of both oneself and followers to consider problems in novel, unusual, and 
productive ways. Individual consideration finally encompasses a leader’s mandate 
to pay due attention to his or her followers, assisting in their development, listening, 
mentoring, and nurturing (Avolio 2010). Crucial here is the aspect of individual­
ity, with due care being given to each and every follower as a unique individual 
whose needs diverge from those of others, and from those of the group at large. 
Taken together, proper practice of these dimensions has shown itself overwhelmingly 
effective (Wang et al. 2011). Aside from the transformational-transactional paradigm, 
numerous further approaches are currently trending, such as digital (Oberer and 
Erkollar 2018), empowering (Cheong et al. 2019) and servant leadership (Eva et al. 
2019). Most, however, have long conceptualized leadership as an influence process 
largely aligned with the FRLT’s underlying paradigmatic perspective (Yukl 1989), 
and continue to do so (cf. Montano et al. 2023; Tarí et al. 2023).
The importance of leadership to organizational outcomes can hardly be overstated 
(Banks et al. 2017), and TL in particular has repeatedly shown itself to be an emi­
nently effective tool in a leader’s kit (e.g. Deng et al. 2022; Judge and Piccolo 2004; 
Lowe et al. 1996). Specifically, TL has been found to stimulate organizational citizen­
ship behaviors (e.g. Khan and Khan 2022), performance (e.g. Prabhu and Srivastava 
2023), attitudes, and employee satisfaction (Alwali and Alwali 2022) to name just 
a few. In particular, transformational leaders have been shown to facilitate not only 
followers’ performance, but also their creativity (e.g. Żywiołek et al. 2022) and inno­
vation (e.g. Begum et al. 2022), two vital constituents “inseparable” from entrepre­
neurship (Gilad 1984, p. 151). These beneficial effects have been theoretically and 
empirically linked to each of the four facets of TL noted above. For example, inspi­
rational motivation is considered as boosting followers’ intrinsic motivation, which 
in turn is crucial to creativity (Amabile 1996; de Jesus et al. 2013), while intellectual 
stimulation engages and promotes followers’ capacity for critical and exploratory 
thinking (Sosik et al. 1998), thereby boosting creativity and innovation (e.g. Thuan 
2020; Yasin et al. 2014), which has been shown to mediate the positive effect of TL 
on firm performance (Overstreet et al. 2013). In addition to its widely accepted util­
ity, there are further reasons for explicitly examining TL as it relates to EL. First, 
TL is the one mainstream style of leadership most routinely applied to entrepreneur­
1 3
497
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
ship (e.g. Fries et al. 2021; Luu 2023; Soomro and Shah 2022), having been used to 
predict entrepreneurial creativity (Gumusluoglu and Ilsev 2009) and performance 
(Harsanto and Roelfsema 2015), among other outcomes. Second, as their respective 
authors state, the three most eminent measures for EL currently available (Bagheri 
and Harrison 2020; Gupta et al. 2004; Renko et al. 2015) relied on TL to varying 
degrees during their conceptualization, in particular on the sub-facets of visionary 
leadership (inspirational motivation) and encouraging novel ways of thinking in fol­
lowers (intellectual stimulation). These three eminent measures together represent the 
vast majority of citations for any measures of EL, and lie at the heart of much of the 
theoretical discourse on EL (see e.g. Clark et al. 2019; Leitch and Harrison 2018b). 
Third, other researchers continue to use TL, as defined in the Multifactor Leadership 
Questionnaire (Bass and Avolio 1997), to measure the leadership of entrepreneurs, 
in place of any of the three currently available EL questionnaires (see e.g. Bamiatzi 
et al. 2015; Ensley et al. 2006; Ng and Kee 2018; Verma and Kumar 2021). In addi­
tion, numerous studies have recently sought to replicate the results achieved with TL 
using novel conceptualizations of EL (e.g. Newman et al. 2018). Finally, a select few 
studies have actually quantitatively examined the two together (Cai et al. 2019; Lee et 
al. 2020; Newman et al. 2018); their contribution has yet to be considered within the 
larger picture. The interaction between EL and TL is therefore intensifying.
In summary, TL may be considered a staple of mainstream leadership science, 
with extensive evidence accrued in support of its predictive power and validity. It has 
been repeatedly used to measure EL, is considered by some to represent the leader­
ship component of EL and is heavily represented in EL questionnaires.
2.2  Entrepreneurial leadership
Entrepreneurship is an important engine for both national and global economies 
(Carlsson et al. 2013; van Praag and Versloot 2007). Central issues in entrepreneur­
ship research continue to include opportunity recognition, innovation, and risk-tak­
ing (Carlsson et al. 2013), mirroring classical lines of thought which conceptualized 
the entrepreneur as a risk-taker (Knight 1921), a creator (Schumpeter 1942), or an 
arbitrator of economic disequilibria (Kirzner 1973). All of these emphasize the per­
son of the entrepreneur, who represents by definition a leader of sorts. Though more 
modern approaches, such as effectuation (Hubner et al. 2022), knowledge spillover 
(Iftikhar et al. 2022), or bricolage (Crupi et al. 2022), have sought more holistic and 
process-oriented frameworks for understanding entrepreneurship, this emphasis has 
remained central. For example, Sarasvathy argues that entrepreneurs are effectuators 
first, and that the charismatic or visionary leadership frequently attributed to them is 
often misperceived (2008, p. 235). In contrast, the bricolage approach seeks to take a 
firm-wide perspective, tackling the phenomenon of entrepreneurship through socio-
economic analysis (Baker and Nelson 2005). A wide variety of approaches are now 
available which variously examine entrepreneurship as a mindset (e.g. Kuratko et al. 
2021), a process (e.g. Hikkerova et al. 2016), or a collection of traits (e.g. Munir et 
al. 2019), although the general focus remains on the figure of the entrepreneur. Over 
the last two decades, however, the debate has widened in its appreciation of the scope 
and nature of entrepreneurship (Landström 2020), kicked off by a widely quoted 
1 3
498
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
assertion by Shane and Venkataraman (2000, p. 218) that “the field involves the study 
of sources of opportunities, the process of discovery, evaluation, and exploitation of 
opportunities, and the set of individuals who discover, evaluate, and exploit them”.
As may be expected, such a wide field has given rise to an equally extensive range 
of appreciations of what EL may be understood to be. Even though the progenitor 
fields of entrepreneurship and leadership display certain similarities in their histori­
cal development (Harrison and Leitch 1994; Leitch and Volery 2017), the explicit, 
scientific examination of their intersection is a comparatively novel field of inquiry 
(Fernald et al. 2005), regardless of whether it is considered as starting with Lippitt 
(1987), or with Cogliser and Brigham (2004). Numerous definitions of EL have been 
proposed, some prominent examples of which are given in Table 1. Cunningham and 
Lischeron’s (1991) definition is foundational, and the aftereffects that were conjured 
by the breadth of its scope continue to be felt in the disparity of the field three decades 
later. Following this, Ireland et al. (2003) as well as Cogliser and Brigham (2004) are 
both often referenced. The former, with its emphasis on leading others to strategically 
manage resources, somewhat evokes the concept of empowering leadership (Cheong 
et al. 2019). In contrast, Cogliser and Brigham’s (2004) definition makes no real men­
tion of leading followers, instead stating that resources must be marshaled, detailing 
how an entrepreneur must adapt leadership of their venture along with its growth; 
Table 1  Definitions of EL - Adapted from Leitch and Volery (2017)
Source
Definition
Cunningham 
and
Lischeron 
(1991)
EL involves setting clear goals, creating opportunities, empowering people, preserving 
organizational intimacy, and developing a human resource system.
Nicholson 
(1998)
Entrepreneurial leaders can differ from other leaders and nonleaders in specific respects 
including traits such as high risk-taking behavior, openness, need for achievement and 
low deliberation. EL is also about being resistant to the socialisation that shapes mana­
gerial personality and the willingness to escape management into leadership.
Ireland et al. 
(2003)
EL entails the ability to influence others to manage resources strategically in order to 
emphasize both opportunity-seeking and advantage-seeking behaviors.
Cogliser and 
Brigham 
(2004)
EL should involve idea generation, idea structuring and idea promotion, where idea 
generation is critical in the early stages of a venture and idea structuring and promotion 
in the latter stages. Therefore, an entrepreneurial leader does not only need to recognise 
opportunities, but he or she must also be able to marshal the resources necessary to
reach the potential of that opportunity.
Gupta et al. 
(2004)
Leadership that creates visionary scenarios that are used to assemble and mobilize a 
supporting cast of participants who become committed by the vision to the discovery 
and exploitation of strategic value creation.
Kuratko 
(2007)
EL is a unique concept combining the identification of opportunities, risk taking be­
yond security and being resolute enough to follow through.
Surie and 
Ashley
(2008)
Leadership capable of sustaining innovation and adaptation in high velocity and uncer­
tain environments.
Leitch et al. 
(2013)
EL is the leadership role performed in entrepreneurial ventures, rather than in the more 
general sense of an entrepreneurial style of leadership.
Renko et al. 
(2015)
EL entails influencing and directing the performance of group members toward the 
achievement of organizational goals that involve recognizing and exploiting entrepre­
neurial opportunities.
1 3
499
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
Fig. 1  Flowchart, showing the stages of the systematic literature review
 
1 3
500
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
this bears little resemblance to mainstream theories of leadership, and has yet to give 
rise to any instruments of measurement. Finally, the most influential definition has 
almost certainly been that of Gupta et al. (2004), which will be discussed in detail 
below. However, even at this early stage, it may be noted that their definition bears 
some resemblance to TL, with its emphasis on vision (Gupta et al. 2004). Though 
some still adhere to this conceptualization (e.g. Pu et al. 2022), most now engage 
with the definition of Renko et al. (2015), the use of which has been increasing in 
recent publications (e.g. Hoang et al. 2022; Lin and Yi 2022; Malibari and Bajaba 
2022; Strobl et al. 2022).
An increasing body of work is seeking to pin down EL, with two clearly vis­
ible overarching perspectives emerging: leadership or entrepreneurship (Leitch and 
Harrison 2018a; Röschke 2018b). The latter generally conceptualizes EL as a mind­
set, with leadership subsumed into the overall application of entrepreneurship. This 
point of view is typified by Gupta et al. (2004) and Kuratko (2007), though some 
more recent work follows in the same vein (e.g. Lyons et al. 2020). Others take a 
slightly different tone, clearly stating that EL is not a “style” of leadership, but instead 
describes the leadership role performed in entrepreneurial ventures (Leitch and Vol­
ery 2017). This thread of research embraces the notion that, as such, leadership is 
not merely a subordinate component in a hierarchical topology that emanates from 
entrepreneurship, but that, indeed, entrepreneurship may be regarded as the essence 
of EL (Harrison et al. 2016). In contrast, the approach exists which defines EL from 
the standpoint of leadership science (Baumol 1968; Leitch and Volery 2017). The 
pinnacle of this viewpoint was seen with Vecchio (2003), who framed EL merely as 
leadership carried out within the narrow context of an entrepreneurial venture, and 
nothing more. Within this school of thought, a further division may be made between 
adherents to behavior (e.g. Bagheri and Harrison 2020; Hoang et al. 2022) or trait-
based (e.g. Kuratko 2007; Nicholson 1998) theories. The latter is however criticized 
for its relatedness to now-outmoded trait-based theories in mainstream leadership 
science (e.g. Kempster and Cope 2010). Complicating the debate is the atheoretical 
and fragmented nature of the EL field (Leitch and Harrison 2018a), due in part to the 
various streams of inquiry from which the modern pool of research has long drawn 
its inspiration, including areas as diverse as education (Peck 1991; Raby et al. 2023), 
political (Schneider and Teske 1992; Vivona 2023), and community entrepreneur­
ship (Dongul and Artantaş 2022; Selsky and Smith 1994). Some consider a kind 
of “cross-pollination” between entrepreneurship, leadership, and their area of focus 
to be increasing, with the flow becoming increasingly multi-directional (Leitch and 
Harrison 2018a), while others suggest that both the field of leadership and entrepre­
neurship stem from a common phenomenon (EL) or the need to create (Becherer et 
al. 2008). Consensus in short is lacking, and definitions vary.
To summarize, EL is a field of scholarship undergoing rapid development, which 
has hitherto lacked a coherent, widely accepted definition of its subject of inquiry. In 
light of the reviewed literature, it may be noted that TL and EL are two concepts that 
often intermingle in the study of entrepreneurship (Reid et al. 2018). While a number 
of reviews (e.g. Clark et al. 2019; Faridian 2023) have recently sought to bring some 
clarity, and have done so with admirable depth and acuity, questions remain. Two 
points remain unclear: the differences between the recognized role of TL in informing 
1 3
501
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
questionnaires of EL, the actual distinction these measures show from measures of 
TL and their unique contributions beyond TL; and the resulting research landscape 
with respect to the questionnaire-based measurement of EL. In the next section we 
present the method which we used to help us answer our RQs.
3  Methodology
3.1  Planning the review
In line with the methodology set out in Tranfield et al. (2003), Kraus et al. (2020) 
and Kraus et al. (2022), the present systematic literature review was split into distinct 
stages. Before commencing, a purely exploratory reading of the recent literature on 
EL was carried out, encompassing a primary analysis of all literature available under 
the search term “Entrepreneurial Leadership” on the Clarivate Web of Science. This 
established several primary antecedents for the creation of a systematic literature 
review (SLR) (Kraus et al. 2020). First, a sufficient number of articles were found, as 
was a clear surge in the number of articles published over the last five years. Second, 
a lack of both solid theory and formally agreed-upon definitions were noted by a 
number of authorities in the field (e.g. Ahmed and Harrison 2022; Leitch and Har­
rison 2018a). Finally, the specific area under investigation presented a broad range 
of literature based on inconsistent terminologies, and displayed considerable frag­
mentation (Clark et al. 2019). As such, it was determined that the application of the 
SLR methodology bore the potential to establish a worthwhile contribution to current 
research.
After the primary, unstructured analysis of the current literature had established 
the need for an SLR, a panel of experts on the study of leadership in entrepreneurship 
was convened. In line with the reasoning detailed in Sects. 1 and 2 above, the three 
RQs stated in the Introduction were derived and formalized to circumscribe the scope 
of the present review more precisely. Regarding RQ1, the current literature was to be 
examined with respect to the similarities and distinctions between EL and TL, includ­
ing theoretical and conceptual contributions that considered EL with explicit refer­
ence to TL. This simultaneously included examining the conceptual placement of EL, 
as well as the implicit and explicit extent to which it cohered with TL’s theoretical 
framework, embedded within the FRLT, i.e. leadership as an interpersonal influence 
process. Regarding the second RQ, the literature was to be examined with respect to 
the similarities and distinctions between EL and TL at the level of specific operation­
alizations, i.e. questionnaire based measures available to those intent on measuring 
EL quantitatively. Regarding the third RQ, the literature was to be examined to yield 
empirical findings on both EL and TL, contextualizing the relationships between EL 
and TL discerned in the answers to questions 1 and 2.
Furthermore, inclusion criteria were established to increase the transparency and 
replicability of the results, and to ensure that only papers of sufficient quality were 
included. Since the objective of the present review was to furnish readers with a com­
prehensive, multi-level overview of the overlap and differences between TL and EL, 
both conceptual and empirical papers were accepted, the latter including both qualita­
1 3
502
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
tive and quantitative investigations of EL. All included papers had to be published in 
English, and had to be presented as full-length, original articles, which represented 
either an empirical or a conceptual contribution relevant to answering one of the 
three RQs. Furthermore, the included papers had to be available in one of the seven 
databases and meta-database search engines used (see Sect. 3.2.1- Primary Search). 
In addition to these criteria for inclusion, an SLR demands specific exclusion crite­
ria. These were thus defined, with the goal of ensuring that no papers of low quality 
or thematic unsuitability were accepted into the sample. Following the recommen­
dations for reviews of research on entrepreneurship by Kraus et al. (2020), books, 
conference proceedings, letters to the editor, responses to these, and other, non-peer-
reviewed articles were specifically excluded. Furthermore, papers were excluded if 
they appeared in journals with an impact factor of less than 1 at the time of the 
search (April 2022), in line with previous SLRs in the Review of Managerial Science 
(e.g. Ribeiro-Navarrete et al. 2022; Salmony & Kanbach 2022). Finally, papers were 
excluded if abstract or full-text screening showed that they failed to discuss as a main 
topic either TL used as EL, or both TL and EL in explicit concert.
3.2  Conducting the review
3.2.1  Primary search
In order to adhere to the subject matter while ensuring that all possible, pertinent con­
tributions would be included, an exhaustive all-fields search was carried out across 
a number of major databases and search engines. These were identified via analysis 
of previous SLRs, both within the field of EL (e.g. Clark et al. 2019; Harrison et al. 
2016) and within the journal targeted for publication, the Review of Managerial Sci­
ence (e.g. Feser 2022; Salmony and Kanbach 2022). This led to the selection of the 
databases of Taylor and Francis, Emerald, Wiley Online, and SAGE Journals, as well 
as the meta-database search engines Web of Science, ScienceDirect, and JSTOR. In 
line with previous publications (e.g. Alaassar et al. 2022; but see also Deyanova et al. 
2022), Google Scholar’s search engine was additionally utilized, and findings com­
pared to the final sample to determine whether a significant number of peer-reviewed 
works might have been excluded due to selection of these databases. No major con­
tributions were found that had been excluded without warrant.
Keyword strings were kept constant across all databases and search engines. The 
combination of “Entrepreneurial leadership” coupled with “Transformational leader­
ship” was employed, using the Boolean operator “AND” to conjoin the two, thus 
excluding any articles which failed to mention both. Since the RQs focus on examin­
ing the overlap and difference between the concepts of EL and TL specifically, using 
these concrete terms without variation was deemed most fitting. Including research 
on entrepreneurial or visionary leaders, for example, would have broadened the scope 
beyond the core definitional and conceptual discourse the RQs sought to unravel; 
articles not even containing the term “Entrepreneurial leadership” were considered 
to represent a tangential contribution to the discourse. The same logic was applied to 
articles not explicitly referencing TL. This step, while potentially subject to type-1 
errors, represented the only clear and replicable path to the creation of a sample of 
1 3
503
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
manageable size. Limiting the search to title, abstract, and subject terms would have 
excluded an excessive number of relevant results, even using truncated forms (such 
as entre* and transf* and leader*). Using an all-fields search with truncated forms 
would have yielded an excess of 10,000 articles without guaranteeing full coverage 
due to the terminological disunity surrounding EL. The coverage period was chosen 
to stretch up until April 31st, 2022, given that data collection was carried out in May 
2022. In response to the authors’ initial sighting of the literature, no bound on past 
papers was considered necessary, as an explicit mention of both EL and TL would 
not pre-date the creation of the FRLT. Any potential early articles which dealt with 
the topic were considered valuable input. This search methodology yielded a pri­
mary pool of 428 articles. The searches had already filtered by publication type, with 
only peer-reviewed articles accepted, and all others rejected. Duplicates were then 
removed, leaving 398 articles.
3.2.2  Abstract screening and full-text screening
Synthesis of the literature followed a two-step approach, in line with recently pub­
lished SLRs (e.g. Feser 2022). First, abstract screening led to the inclusion of 110 
papers, with 298 removed (see Fig. 1). This involved removing all articles which 
failed to explicitly examine EL or TL, were deemed inadmissible by type but had 
passed the database filtering, were duplicates the first screening had missed, or were 
not published in English. For example, many articles were found which mentioned 
either TL or EL only once or twice, included references in the bibliography that con­
tained those terms, or had abstracts in English but were written in another language. 
Such articles were removed from the sample.
Finally, a full reading of the remaining 110 articles was carried out, leading to 
the exclusion of a further 85 papers. All papers were read by two researchers, and 
decisions had to be unanimous for exclusion to occur; in cases where the researchers 
failed to agree, a third member of the team made the decision to include or reject. 
Only a few articles were found which required this measure. This screening phase 
addressed two main points: quality and relevance. With respect to quality, papers 
were examined for appropriate referencing; for a presentation of results that was both 
unambiguous, and sufficiently underpinned by coherent arguments; and for publica­
tion in reputable and widely cited journals, with an impact factor of greater than 1. 
Regarding the second point of concern, i.e. relevance, attention was paid to the fea­
tures of the articles which would help in answering the three RQs (see above). The 
topicality of the articles was examined, in line with the reasoning stated in Sect. 3.1; 
it should be noted that articles which framed EL purely in terms of TL were not 
excluded. In addition, papers were cross-referenced while reading to make sure that 
no key works had been missed. Some contributions were identified that could have 
offered a potential benefit but appeared in journals with an impact factor lower than 1.
3.2.3  Synthesis and content analysis
As a consequence of the screening procedures detailed above, a sample of 25 papers 
was conserved for data extraction and analysis; these are listed in Sect. 4, Table 2. 
1 3
504
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
Due to the fragmentation of the field, the heterogeneity of the resulting sample, and 
the conceptual and terminological disunity, a qualitative methodology was combined 
with a synthesizing approach (Gentles et al. 2016). In doing this, both deductive and 
inductive codes were used, while reference to the underlying framework of the FRLT 
provided a guideline for the categorization of approaches to EL determined in the 
sample (cf. Feser 2022). In a first step, key characteristics of the articles were iden­
tified, permitting a rough separation along formal lines. Conceptual and empirical 
articles were separated, with all purely conceptual articles forming the first category. 
Articles which examined EL explicitly using measures of TL were then grouped into 
a second category. This led to a remainder of articles that could be split into two final 
categories: three articles that proposed measures of EL, as well as four articles which 
used such measures to empirically examine EL. In all, four categories emerged which 
will inform the discussion below. A second step then saw the content analysis of 
all articles by all three authors, identifying thematic and conceptual similarities and 
differences, with the researchers engaged in a constant and iterative exchange. The 
resulting corpus of content was then analyzed with respect to the RQs, elucidated 
in the Results section, and key findings drawn for further contextualization in the 
Discussion section.
4  Results
The results of the SLR paint a clear picture of a thriving and rapidly growing field of 
research. As can be seen in Fig. 2, research on the intersection between EL and TL has 
increased markedly within the last decade, catalyzed perhaps by the Journal of Small 
Fig. 2  Chart showing publication frequency of articles covering EL, and both EL and TL, by year
 
1 3
505
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
Business Management’s 2015 special issue on EL. As can be seen from the overlay 
with general search results for EL, specific interest in the role of TL in EL increased 
in tandem during the previous decade. The final sample is depicted in Table 2.
In the present systematic literature review, 25 articles were examined to gain a 
better understanding of the conceptual and practical relationship between TL and EL. 
Four categories of articles were thematically distinguished (see Table 4), and each 
was analyzed with specific regard to their particularities and individual contributions. 
The first group of seven articles discusses EL and TL conceptually, some systemati­
cally, and some in a narrative manner. These offer an interesting meta-informational 
view, and shall inform the discussion both with regard to similarities between the two 
leadership styles, and concerning the distinctness which researchers at large attribute 
to current conceptualizations of EL. These papers will inform the answer to RQ1. A 
second category of three papers contains the three extant measures of EL (Bagheri 
and Harrison 2020; Gupta et al. 2004; Renko et al. 2015). Examining their component 
items and dimensions will offer first-hand input for a direct comparison of EL and TL 
operationalization, and will be central to answering RQ2. Vital for answering RQ3 
are first four articles quantitatively examining EL, three doing so side by side with 
TL (Cai et al. 2019; Lee et al. 2020; Newman et al. 2018), and the other replicating 
results previously garnered with respect to TL, but using EL instead. The statistical 
results contained within these four will offer vital clues to the discriminant validity at 
the level of pure data, of EL versus TL. Finally, the fourth and largest group of eleven 
articles examined EL using TL both quantitatively and qualitatively. As such, they 
lend an interesting counterpoint to current conceptions which determine EL to be a 
distinct style (e.g. Renko 2017). Of particular interest will be an analysis and synthe­
sis of the arguments put forth within them for the use of TL within the entrepreneurial 
paradigm. The results of the content analysis of each article are offered below, by 
category, beginning with previous reviews and conceptual contributions, followed by 
extant measures of EL, moving on to quantitative examinations of EL and TL, and 
ending with papers that examine EL purely in terms of TL.
4.1  Reviews and conceptual contributions
In beginning the content analysis of the results, the theoretical articles of Category 
I offer an interesting window into the previous theoretical discussion regarding the 
relationship between EL and TL at the construct level. Moreover, by assessing their 
implicit and explicit adherence to the FRLT’s paradigm of leadership, interaction-
based leader-follower influence, a description of their congruence with the main­
stream of leadership literature is made possible.
Of seven purely conceptual articles, only two lead with the assumption that EL 
should be regarded as a coherent and distinct concept or style (Harrison et al. 2020; 
Leitch and Volery 2017). In contrast, the other articles reveal the breadth of cur­
rent, alternative perspectives. These share no theoretical accord in their view of EL; 
whether in their level of analysis of leadership (Lyons et al. 2020), their epistemic 
approach (Kimbu et al. 2021), or the centrality they accord to the measures and con­
cepts currently at the heart of EL (Reid et al. 2018; Leitch and Volery 2017) defini­
tively argue that EL represents a new and distinct paradigm at the intersection of its 
1 3
506
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
Authors 
and Year
Concep­
tual or 
Empirical
Focus
Journal
Bagheri 
and Harri­
son (2020)
Empirical
Develops a novel, extensive scale of EL, drawing on Gupta et 
al. (2004) and Huang et al. (2014).
J Small 
Bus Enterp 
Dev
Baldegger 
and Gast 
(2016)
Empirical
Uses the FRLT as the basis for a qualitative investigation of 
leadership in entrepreneurial ventures, and suggests that an 
evolution from transformational to transactional takes place.
Int J En­
trep Behav 
Res
Bamiatzi et 
al. (2015)
Empirical
Examines female entrepreneurs using the full MLQ, finding that 
the highest scores by far were achieved on TL.
J Small 
Bus 
Manag
Cai et al. 
(2019)
Empirical
Measures the connection between creativity at various levels in 
an entrepreneurial venture and ENTRELEAD.
J Bus 
Psychol
Ensley et 
al. (2006)
Empirical
Examines the effect of TL and transactional leadership styles on 
new venture performance and new venture growth.
J Bus 
Ventur
Fries et al. 
(2021)
Theory
Literature review comparing leadership styles (TL, transaction­
al, autocratic, expert, laissez-faire, participative and referent) 
with leadership behaviors (entrepreneurial, nepotistic, pater­
nalistic, steward and supportive) in family firms. EL behavior 
overlaps strongly with only TL.
J Fam Bus 
Strategy
Gupta et al. 
(2004)
Empirical
Development of a scale of EL with five behavioral dimensions: 
Framing the challenge, absorbing uncertainty, path clearing, 
building commitment and specifying limits.
J Bus 
Ventur
Harrison 
and Leitch 
(1994)
Theory
Discusses at length the then nascent field of EL, with reference 
to both progenitor fields and possible future directions and 
theoretical currents.
Entrep 
Reg Dev
Harrison et 
al. (2020)
Theory
Provides an overview of the fields of entrepreneurship, leader­
ship, and EL through the use of a critical literature review.
J Small 
Bus Entrep
Hensel 
and Visser 
(2018)
Empirical
Examines TL in entrepreneurial teams with shared responsi­
bilities, its positive effects, as well as the mediating role of 
personality traits.
Int J En­
trep Behav 
Res
Kimbu et 
al. (2021)
Empirical
Qualitative investigation of female EL in the Ghanaian and 
Nigerian tourism industry. Discusses the role and utility of TL.
Ann Tour 
Res
Lee et al. 
(2020)
Empirical
Meta-analytic review of thirteen established leadership styles, 
including both TL and EL, and their respective effects on 
creativity.
Eur J Work 
Organ 
Psychol
Leitch and 
Volery 
(2017)
Theory
Introductory literature review which seeks to provide a brief 
overview of the fields of entrepreneurship, leadership, and EL, 
as well as their interconnections.
Int Small 
Bus J
Lyons et al. 
(2020)
Theory
Proposes a 30-point skill inventory for successful entrepreneur­
ship, which includes TL.
J Entrep 
Public
McCar­
thy et al. 
(2010)
Empirical
Examines leadership styles in Russian entrepreneurial ventures, 
with qualitative coding revealing that a style termed “open” is 
most prevalent, which strongly resembles TL.
Calif 
Manag 
Rev
Newman et 
al. (2018)
Empirical
Examines both EL and TL quantitatively, as well as their 
effect on the relationship between creative self-efficacy and 
innovation.
J Bus Res
Ng and 
Kee (2018)
Empirical
Examines TL in SMEs combined with measures of “entrepre­
neurial competencies” (Chandler and Jansen 1992), including 
opportunity recognition.
Manag 
Decis
Table 2  Final sample of 25 papers Of these, the five most highly cited articles are listed in Table 3
1 3
507
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
two parent fields of entrepreneurship and leadership, offering three reasons. First, 
they argue that numerous scholars view entrepreneurs as leaders by default (e.g. 
Cunningham and Lischeron 1991); second, they mention the similar evolutionary 
paths of the two fields; finally, they adduce the similarities between EL on the one 
hand, and TL, charismatic, and authentic leadership on the other. With respect to the 
Table 3  Highly cited articles (n > 200) discussing TL and EL. Given above are the authors, year of publica­
tion, the title of the article and journal of publication, as well as the number of citations as stated on Google 
Scholar™ as of February 1st, 2023
Authors and Year
Title
Citations
Journal
Ensley et al. (2006)
The moderating effect of environmental dynamism 
on the relationship between entrepreneur leader­
ship behavior and new venture performance
576
J Bus 
Ventur
Gupta et al. (2004)
Entrepreneurial Leadership: Developing and mea­
suring a cross-cultural construct
1,228
 J Bus 
Ventur
Leitch and Volery 
(2017)
Entrepreneurial Leadership: Insights and 
directions.
278
Int Small 
Bus J
Newman et al. (2018) The effects of employees’ creative self-efficacy on 
innovative behavior: The role of Entrepreneurial 
Leadership
351
J Bus 
Res
Renko et al. (2015)
Understanding and Measuring Entrepreneurial 
Leadership Style
676
J Small 
Bus 
Manag
Authors 
and Year
Concep­
tual or 
Empirical
Focus
Journal
Ng et al. 
(2019)
Empirical
Similar to the earlier study by Ng and Kee (2018). Examines 
the role of TL and “entrepreneurial competence” (Chandler and 
Jansen 1992) on the performance of SMEs.
J Small 
Bus Enterp 
Dev
Paudel 
(2019)
Empirical
Seeks to replicate previous results linking TL with entrepreneur­
ial performance using Gupta et al.’s (2004) measure for EL.
South 
Asian J 
Bus Stud
Reid et al. 
(2018)
Theory
Critical literature review examining the intersection between 
the fields of leadership and entrepreneurship, from a leadership 
perspective.
Leadersh 
Q
Renko et 
al. (2015)
Empirical
Development of a new, short measure for EL. Encompasses 
eight items in one dimension.
J Small 
Bus 
Manag
Verma and 
Kumar 
(2021)
Empirical
Examination of leadership styles, TL among them, in ecologi­
cally-minded startups and the interactions with the mindset that 
typifies them, termed “green entrepreneurship”.
J Entrep 
Emerg 
Econ
Wang et al. 
(2012)
Empirical
Case-study-based examination of differing styles of leader­
ship in entrepreneurial ventures, and a discussion of how these 
connect to traditional Chinese philosophies of Confucianism, 
Legalism and Daoism.
Asia Pac 
Bus Rev
Xu and Jin 
(2022)
Empirical
Empirical examination of stressors typically encountered within 
entrepreneurship on TL in its function as EL.
J Bus Res
Zaech and 
Baldegger 
(2017)
Empirical
Empirical examination of the prevalence of the leadership styles 
of the FRLT in entrepreneurial ventures, as well as their effect 
on performance.
Int Small 
Bus J
Table 2  (continued)
 
1 3
508
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
theoretical paradigm of the FRLT, the authors initially confirm and acknowledge that 
leadership “revolves around the process of influencing others” (Leitch and Volery 
2017, p. 147). However, thereafter, the separation between “leadership in” and “lead­
ership of” is quickly subsumed by a broader, phenomenological interpretation of EL 
as a field of research, as opposed to a concrete, operationalizable style of leadership. 
Concretely, the authors consider EL as a “leadership role performed in entrepreneur­
ial ventures, rather than in the more general sense of an entrepreneurial style of lead­
ership” (Leitch and Volery 2017, p. 148). In a similar vein, Harrison et al. (2020) 
also argue that EL is a distinct phenomenon. Though providing extensive and useful 
theoretical exploration, however, their treatment of TL is somewhat perfunctory; they 
Table 4  Articles distributed into the four categories
Category
Articles
I: Reviews and conceptual 
contributions
Fries et al. (2021), Harrison and Leitch (1994), Harrison et al. 
(2020), Kimbu et al. (2021), Leitch and Volery (2020), Lyons et al. 
(2020), Reid et al. (2018)
II: Measures of EL
Bagheri and Harrison (2020), Gupta et al. (2004), Renko et al. (2015)
III: Quantitative studies of EL 
and TL
Cai et al. (2019), Lee et al. (2020), Newman et al. (2018), Paudel 
(2019)
IV: Studies employing TL in 
lieu of EL
Baldegger and Gast (2016), Bamiatzi et al. (2015), Ensley et al. 
(2006), Hensel and Visser (2018), McCarthy et al. (2010), Ng and 
Kee (2018), Ng et al. (2019), Wang et al. (2012), Verma and Kumar 
(2021), Xu and Jin (2022), Zaech and Baldegger (2017)
Fig. 3  Proportion of overall 
sample according to category
 
1 3
509
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
make no mention of its pertinent role in informing all extant conceptualizations of EL 
(Bagheri and Harrison 2020; Gupta et al. 2004; Renko et al. 2015), nor of the numer­
ous authors who use TL in lieu of EL (see e.g. Category II). These authors argue for 
what may be termed the positive integration perspective (Fernald et al. 2005), which 
posits that EL as a field emerged from the positive integration of its two parents.
At the root of this perspective lies a paper by Harrison and Leitch (1994) that rep­
resents a foundational text in the field of EL. They cite Carsrud and Johnson (1989) 
to claim that the fields of entrepreneurship and leadership have evolved in parallel, 
laying the groundwork for numerous later authors who take this line (e.g. Harrison 
et al. 2020; Harrison and Leitch 1994; Leitch and Volery 2017). However, instead 
of claiming EL as representing a distinct construct at that point, Harrison and Leitch 
(1994) use these parallels to suggest a theoretical paradigm which future research at 
the carrefour of the two fields could follow: contingency. Arguing that leadership 
research developed from trait over situation to contingency, they note that entrepre­
neurship had yet to embrace the last step, and quote numerous studies advocating the 
use of contemporary developments in leadership (e.g. Chell et al. 1991; Greenberger 
and Sexton 1987). The contingency approach has indeed been applied to EL, though 
more so from within the field of leadership than recent conceptual developments in 
EL (Antonakis and Autio 2012; Baldegger and Gast 2016). The remaining four purely 
conceptual papers in the present sample take differing, more generalist perspectives. 
One discusses identity construction in female entrepreneurial leaders in Ghana and 
Nigeria through the lens of poststructural feminism (Kimbu et al. 2021). Building on 
the socially constructed nature of EL, the authors challenge the endemic, essentialist 
claims which implicitly couch entrepreneurship and EL in relation to norms that are 
predominantly male (Kakabadse et al. 2018; Tlaiss and Kauser 2019) and embedded 
in the Northern Hemisphere (Figueroa-Domecq et al. 2020). Similarly, the notion 
of TL and transactional leadership being respectively typical of women and men is 
tempered with the argument that both context, and the social construction of entrepre­
neurial identity, play a vital yet under-researched moderating role (Cliff et al. 2005; 
Zapalska et al. 2015). This viewpoint is invigorating, and moves beyond concep­
tualizations which focus merely on dichotomizing the theoretical heritage defining 
the current field of EL (e.g. Röschke 2018a). In contrast, Lyons et al. (2020) focus 
on a far more tangible, skill-based perspective of rural entrepreneurship, subsuming 
TL as a part thereof, but making no mention of the ongoing debates surrounding the 
definition of the term “EL” (e.g. Harrison et al. 2020; Leitch and Volery 2017). The 
authors determine TL, as defined by Bass (1985) as representing a mere one in 30 of 
the skills necessary for successful entrepreneurship. In doing so, they may implicitly 
be deemed as acknowledging the FRLT’s paradigm of leadership.
Finally, Reid et al. (2018) provide an overview of the cross-fertilization of entre­
preneurship and leadership, in accordance with the five key dimensions described in 
the foundational work by Cogliser and Brigham (2004). The contribution of Reid et 
al. (2018) extensively discusses the contributions made by leadership research which 
have directly impacted the field of EL research. With respect to leadership, their 
perspective may be considered firmly aligned with the FRLT’s underlying paradigm, 
of “leadership in” versus “leadership of” organizations. Numerous contributions are 
discussed, among them the utility of TL in enhancing creativity and innovation in 
1 3
510
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
entrepreneurial ventures and its place as a primary tool for growth-oriented entre­
preneurs, while the effect of TL on stakeholder perceptions of entrepreneurial vision 
is stated as a possible question for future research. A final contribution examines 
leadership styles and leadership behaviors in varying types of family-owned busi­
nesses (Fries et al. 2021). These authors through their own literature review establish 
a number of leadership styles and leadership behaviors typical of family businesses. 
As one of five of the latter, they define EL behavior in accordance with Pistrui et al. 
(2000), while adhering to the more widespread definition of TL in accordance with 
Bass (1985). In doing so, these authors also implicitly adopt the FRLT’s framework 
of leadership as a leader-follower process.
4.2  Measures of entrepreneurial leadership
Although the above-mentioned theoretical work provides insight into the conceptual 
debates surrounding EL, the key interface between theory and empirical findings is 
represented by operationalized tools for measurement. The present sample contains 
the three most prominent measures of EL, as well as several articles which employ 
them, discussed in the next subsection. First, there is Gupta et al.’s (2004) ques­
tionnaire, and a study which used it (Paudel 2019); second, Renko et al.’s (2015) 
measure, also found in two publications (Cai et al. 2019; Newman et al. 2018), them­
selves included in an in-sample meta-analysis (Lee et al. 2020). Finally, the recent 
contribution by Bagheri and Harrison (2020), though not used by any articles in the 
present sample, represents a major step in the creation of an operationalized mea­
sure of EL. The first operationalization of EL still in common usage is represented 
by Gupta et al.’s (2004) model. Not parsed directly as a questionnaire measure, the 
contribution instead develops a list of behaviors considered unique to an entrepre­
neurial style of leadership. Numerous steps of development occurred which will be 
examined in detail in the discussion, resulting in five behavioral dimensions: Framing 
the challenge, absorbing uncertainty, path clearing, building commitment, and speci­
fying limits. Several of these behaviors clearly mirror certain aspects of TL, such as 
“Has a vision and imagination of the future”, “Sets high standards of performance”, 
or “Inspires emotions, beliefs, values and behaviors of others, inspires others to be 
motivated to work hard” (Gupta et al. 2004, p. 250). While the authors discuss these 
similarities, they point to differences such as “ambitious foresight and pattern recog­
nition capabilities” required in entrepreneurial leaders which are absent in TL (Gupta 
et al. 2004, p. 254).
Renko et al.’s (2015) ENTRELEAD was developed as a short measure for EL, 
in part to explicitly remedy the issues inherent in the previously used measure (i.e. 
Gupta et al. 2004). Using standard procedures of scale development and valida­
tion, the authors settle on an eight-item scale for the measurement of EL. Just as 
in the previously examined scale, a strong resemblance to TL is evident. Three of 
ENTRELEAD’s eight items (“Has creative solutions to problems”, “Challenges and 
pushes me to act in a more innovative way”, “Wants me to challenge the current 
ways we do business”) bear a striking resemblance to the TL sub-dimension of intel­
lectual stimulation, while one is identical in content to inspirational motivation (“Has 
a vision of the future of our business”), and another is strongly reminiscent of ide­
1 3
511
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
alized influence behavior (“Demonstrates passion for his/her work”). Building on 
both of these previous scales, Bagheri and Harrison (2020) presented the longest 
and most detailed scale of EL to date, composed of 40 items along eight dimensions, 
and with high internal validity. Among these eight dimensions, numerous items can 
be found that are strongly reminiscent of other leadership styles, such as empower­
ing leadership (e.g. “Creates an environment where organization staff feel free to 
try new things”; cf. Cheong et al. 2019), self-leadership (e.g. “Shows awareness of 
their strengths and weaknesses”, “Demonstrates the ability to manage time effec­
tively”; c.f. Houghton et al. 2003) or TL (e.g. “Leads their followers by serving as a 
role model”, “Inspires emotions, beliefs, values and behaviors of followers”, “Shows 
empathy towards his/her followers”; Bass 1985), while further items fit poorly with a 
mainstream conceptualization of leadership as an inter-personal, goal-oriented influ­
ence process (e.g. “Anticipates possible future events”, “Recognises existing market 
opportunities”, “Actively identifies, develops and goes after new business”). While 
Bagheri and Harrison’s scale, due to its novelty, has yet to be widely applied, the 
former two scales have found considerable use since their creation.
4.3  Quantitative studies of entrepreneurial and transformational leadership
Four contributions in the sample examine EL quantitatively. Of these, two publica­
tions examine both EL and TL quantitatively (Cai et al. 2019; Newman et al. 2018), 
while a third incorporates these and others into a meta-analysis (Lee et al. 2020). 
A fourth paper by Paudel (2018) examines only EL, employing the ENTRELEAD 
scale to replicate results connecting TL with innovation, and finds that EL predicts 
it (β = 0.58, p = .00). Meanwhile, two studies directly assessed both EL and TL using 
designated measures. Cai et al. (2019) linked the ENTRELEAD scale with creativ­
ity and innovation, two aspects highly relevant to entrepreneurship. With respect to 
their treatment of TL, they cursorily noted that it failed to explain employee creativ­
ity when recognizing business opportunities. The authors do not further discuss the 
FRLT or its underlying theoretical framework, but adduce a definition of leadership 
as “influencing and directing the performance of group members towards the achieve­
ment of organizational goals that involve recognizing and exploiting entrepreneurial 
activities” by Renko et al. (2015, p. 55). Apart from the emphasis on opportunity 
recognition, this matches well with the FRLT’s conceptualization of leadership as an 
interpersonal, goal-oriented influence process. Their results found significant predic­
tive effects by EL, and none whatsoever by TL for employees’ creative self-efficacy 
(r = .52, p < .01), team creative self-efficacy (r = .35, p < .05), employee creativity 
(r = .58, p < .01), and team creativity (r = .64, p < .01). Furthermore, they demonstrated 
no statistical correlation between EL and TL. In contrast, Newman et al. (2018) found 
a strong positive relationship between TL and EL (r = .81, p < .05) while showing only 
a correlation of EL with innovative behavior (r = .14, p < .05). TL was also found to 
correlate with innovative behavior (r = .10, p < .10). Like the publication by Cai et 
al. (2019), this contribution focuses on Bandura’s social cognitive theory (1986) to 
explain the positive effects of EL on creative self-efficacy and innovation (Newman 
et al. 2018). Incorporating both of these results is a meta-analysis by Lee et al. (2020), 
which tied EL with authentic leadership for the strongest correlation to creativity 
1 3
512
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
(Spearman’s ρ = 0.47) with a weaker correlation to innovation (ρ = 0.29), comparable 
to TL, which hovered at around ρ = 0.30 for both creativity and innovation.
4.4  Studies using transformational in lieu of entrepreneurial leadership
To provide an interesting narrative counterpoint, Category IV examines the large 
swathe of articles which examined EL using the construct of TL, thereby implicitly 
adopting the theoretical framework of the FRTL. Four examined TL as an antecedent 
variable with respect to performance (Ng et al. 2019; Zaech and Baldegger 2017), 
and were variously moderated by environmental dynamism (Ensley et al. 2006) and 
personality (Hensel and Visser 2018). Overall, three main streams of argumentation 
can be found that pertain to the RQ. First, several argue for using TL in the study 
of entrepreneurship, either due to its intrinsically useful general effects (e.g. Ng et 
al. 2019; Xu and Jin 2022), or because measures of EL are deemed insufficiently 
focused on leadership in its classical definition (Baldegger and Gast 2016; Zaech and 
Baldegger 2017), or simply by default (Bamiatzi et al. 2015; Ensley et al. 2006). A 
second grouping (Hensel and Visser 2018; Ng and Kee 2018) examines the positive 
effect of TL on innovation, drawing on the wealth of literature supporting this link 
(Gumusluoglu and Ilsev 2009), as well as the equally well-supported link between 
innovation and entrepreneurial success (Ireland et al. 2003). Finally, a third tranche 
does not employ TL in particular, instead either examining it for beneficial effects 
in comparison with a number of other leadership styles (Verma and Kumar 2021), 
or finding TL, through inductively qualitative analysis, to be the main style applied 
by entrepreneurs or in entrepreneurial ventures (McCarthy et al. 2010; Wang et al. 
2012). The theoretical arguments in each will be traced to provide clarity with respect 
to the RQs.
Ng et al. (2019) introduce their own, brief literature review in which a number 
of sources are cited supporting the value of TL to the success of enterprises. How­
ever, the relevance of some of these sources to entrepreneurship appears tenuous 
(e.g. Schaubroeck et al. 2007), and no explicit justification is given regarding why 
other measures, which are more visibly relevant, are avoided (e.g. Renko et al. 2015). 
Ensley et al. (2006) in contrast discuss at great length their rationale for employing 
the transactional-transformational paradigm. In essence, they define the entrepreneur 
as a leader by default, given the need to garner resources if opportunities are to be 
exploited. From there on, the use of the most prominent paradigm for the measurement 
of leadership is arrived at, equally, by default (Ensley et al. 2006). Another contribu­
tion traces the evolution of leadership style from within the paradigm of leadership 
emergence, documenting a shift from transformational to transactional with increas­
ing maturity of the venture (Baldegger and Gast 2016). The rationale given here for 
the use of TL hinged on a clear separation between entrepreneur and entrepreneurial 
leader: EL is considered simply as leadership within an entrepreneurial context in the 
tradition of Vecchio (2003), the measurement which is considered perfectly achiev­
able through the use of established tools (Baldegger and Gast 2016). The co-authored 
publication by Zaech and Baldegger (2017) follows the same line of reasoning. Only 
one article explicitly examined the female leadership of entrepreneurial ventures, by 
correlating Full Range Leadership Theory styles with entrepreneurial competencies 
1 3
513
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
(Bamiatzi et al. 2015). Here, the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (Bass and 
Avolio 1997) is used, supplemented by specific but not further defined questions on 
leadership style (e.g. autocratic vs. democratic). Finally, Xu and Jin (2022) empiri­
cally examine stressors typically encountered within entrepreneurship, and how these 
moderate the expression of TL in its function as EL. These authors point to the con­
siderable body of work that has demonstrated the effectiveness of TL when exhibited 
by entrepreneurial leaders.
Hensel and Visser (2018) offer a causal chain of reasoning for using TL. First, 
they state the importance of innovation to entrepreneurial effectiveness (Lukes and 
Stephan 2017), offering evidence for the undisputed importance of TL for team 
innovation (García-Morales et al. 2012), ultimately stating that little research has 
examined the latter assertion in teams under shared leadership. It is this gap they 
thereafter choose to exploit, finding that a variety of personality traits affect the two 
key dimensions of vision articulation and intellectual stimulation (Hensel and Visser 
2018; Ng and Kee 2018), as in their paper detailed above, adduce TL together with 
entrepreneurial competences, examining their effect on SME performance. Again, 
no clear justification is established for a potentially direct, beneficial effect which TL 
might have that makes it suitable for entrepreneurship, except through the interposed 
variable of innovation (Ng and Kee 2018; Verma and Kumar 2021) do not explicitly 
state that TL is EL; instead, they examine a number of leadership styles (charismatic, 
visionary, TL, servant) and the interactions with “green entrepreneurship” which 
may affect overall firm growth. Interestingly, they refrain from including any extant 
measures of EL in their analysis. Finally, two publications can be distinguished by 
their use of a qualitative approach. One examines the relationship between EL, con­
ceptualized as lying on the continuum between TL and transactional leadership, and 
traditional Chinese paradigms of leadership (Wang et al. 2012). The second paper 
analyzed open-ended questionnaires from 130 entrepreneurs using content analysis 
methodology to inductively categorize and identify common leadership styles. Their 
result showed an overwhelming proportion of entrepreneurs adhering to an “open” 
leadership style, which the authors determined to be “consistent with the characteris­
tics of TL” (McCarthy et al. 2010, p. 55).
5  Discussion
5.1  RQ1 (theory)
In the previous section, we delineated the output of the content analysis and the iden­
tification of thematic groupings and their conceptual significance, with respect to 
the RQs this work is devoted to. Regarding RQ1, the results detailed above offer a 
conflicting picture. Two conceptual contributions examined here embrace the sugges­
tion that EL is a distinct phenomenon (Harrison et al. 2020; Leitch and Volery 2017). 
Other recent works advocate a similar position (Clark et al. 2019; Harrison et al. 
2016), in line with early work that foreshadowed a split appreciation of EL (Harrison 
and Leitch 1994). Indeed, this central cluster of scholarship in the field of EL (includ­
ing Ahmed and Harrison 2021; Clark et al. 2019; Leitch and Volery 2017) is informed 
1 3
514
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
by the notion of “diametrically opposed views” of EL, caused by research on EL 
being anchored “either in the leadership or in the entrepreneurship field” (Leitch and 
Volery 2017, p. 150). Even these authors however explicitly confirm the relevance 
of TL (Leitch and Volery 2017), and begin by considering leadership as “the process 
of influencing … to accomplish shared objectives” (Leitch and Volery 2017, p. 147). 
This is completely in line with the FRLT’s theoretical conception of leadership, but 
the authors quickly proceed to vastly broaden the scope of what they consider to fall 
under the term of EL. As such, it could be argued that the authors argue more for a 
distinct paradigm than a distinct style, in contrast to others (e.g. Renko 2017). This 
represents a key issue; numerous key conceptual works, including those by Gupta 
et al. (2004), Leitch and Volery (2017) and Harrison et al. (2020), examine EL as an 
issue fundamentally collocated at several levels of analysis. Others are even more 
broad in their definition, considering EL “a new leadership style that is required to 
fulfill the current business changes in the fourth industrial revolution” (Pauceanu et 
al. 2021). While such a holistic appreciation may be useful in stimulating debate, it 
is this intermingling of levels of analysis which problematizes the creation of a con­
ceptual basis suitable for greater operational specificity. This specificity is necessary 
for the development of an operational definition of EL that can be used by scholars 
for measurement; one that is sufficiently distinct from TL and one that is accepted by 
mainstream leadership science to meet the currently dominant definition of leader­
ship as a behavioral influence process between leader and follower (Antonakis and 
Autio 2012; Hemshorn de Sanchez et al. 2022). Only if both these aspects were suf­
ficiently realized could the gap between EL and the wider leadership literature be 
bridged, and a measure of EL found that is capable of receiving a greater degree of 
acceptance by researchers across their clusters. Furthermore, previous contributions 
exist which sought to establish definitions that could serve as a framework for such 
developments (e.g. Antonakis and Autio 2012), and recent work has already begun to 
determine behaviorally proximal components of EL (e.g. Maran et al. 2019).
Regardless of the precise terminology, an apparent consequence of this concep­
tual school of thought is the creation of a form of EL, detailed in the findings above, 
which stands somewhat apart from established measures of leadership (Harrison et 
al. 2020; Leitch and Volery 2017). Proponents of this model argue for its value, but 
both these and other review articles on the subject (e.g. Clark et al. 2019; Harrison 
et al. 2016) fail to acknowledge the extremely limited scope with which the current 
measures of EL have been accepted in mainstream leadership research (e.g. Reid et 
al. 2018). Issues also surround Harrison et al.’s (2020) conceptual discussion of TL. 
In their review of EL, which specifically seeks to disentangle the components of 
leader and entrepreneur, overviews are given of both fields of study. TL is briefly dis­
cussed, even though mention of the parent FRLT is absent, as is its value in supplying 
other, validated styles, such as transactional leadership, as is the central role of TL 
in informing all three measures of EL currently available (Harrison et al. 2020). Nor 
is mention made of the statistical results detailed in the present review. The authors 
point out, somewhat confusingly, that there have been failed attempts to redefine TL 
“by including vision” (Harrison et al. 2020, p. 6), which the authors consider key 
to EL; vision has been a central component of TL since its inception (Bass 1985; 
Burns 1978). Nevertheless, in elucidating their theoretical basis for this position, the 
1 3
515
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
authors provide strong, implicit claims of comprehensiveness and authority in their 
discussion (Harrison et al. 2020), stemming from an epistemic narrative derived from 
earlier work (Fernald et al. 2005; Harrison and Leitch 1994). Furthermore, while 
partially acknowledging the role of TL, they detract from it rather vigorously, point­
ing to a “lack of empirical evidence” for its effectiveness (Harrison et al. 2020, p. 6) 
among other factors, but making no mention of the wealth of studies, reviews, and 
meta-analyses which offer the opposite picture (e.g. Dvir et al. 2002; Gumusluoglu 
and Ilsev 2009; Judge and Piccolo 2004; Lowe et al. 1996; Wang et al. 2011; see 
also Sect. 2.1- Transformational Leadership). As such, while these authors argue for 
a clear separation of EL from TL, the lack of engagement with mainstream leader­
ship literature obscures how a broader dialogue might reflect their proposed, distinct 
construct. Instead, the suggestion is made that both entrepreneurship and leadership 
may be better understood by integrating them “via the lens of the EL paradigm”; it 
is not completely clear what this paradigm is, however (Harrison et al. 2020, p. 12).
This school of thought contrasts with other theoretical appreciations, both of the 
place of EL within leadership, and of EL as a style of leadership, that barely mention 
the EL construct elaborated above (Harrison et al. 2020; Leitch and Volery 2017), 
nor the measures deriving from it. For example, the review of leadership styles by 
Fries et al. (2021) makes no mention of the currently available scales of EL (Bagheri 
and Harrison 2020; Gupta et al. 2004; Renko et al. 2015). In contrast, they find EL 
behaviors to overlap strongly with, and only with, TL (Fries et al. 2021; see also 
Peters and Kallmünzer 2018). Similarly, in their comprehensive analysis of the inter­
section between entrepreneurship and leadership, Ried et al. (2018) touch on these 
measures of EL briefly, but merely to note their use of vision as a key component of 
measuring it. Neither engages with the theoretical arguments supporting their con­
ception. Therefore, the value of these extant operationalizations of EL has not yet 
been fully accepted by more mainstream leadership researchers, indicating that the 
lack of engagement emanates not only from the nuclear field of EL, but also from the 
wider research community. For example, Kimbu et al. (2018) refrained from empha­
sizing the existence of a distinct style of EL, even though theirs represents a sweeping 
examination of leadership theory within entrepreneurship. This reality is paralleled in 
other, highly cited works on entrepreneurial leadership (e.g. Schoemaker et al. 2018). 
Similarly, Lyons et al. (2020) consider EL as representing the full gamut of behaviors 
a leader-entrepreneur must show in order to arrive at a successful venture, with the 
emphasis on the “entrepreneur.” The specific component of leading followers, they 
deem, is well served by the extant construct of TL. This conceptualization clashes 
with Leitch and Volery’s (2017) proposition that extricating EL from the “leadership 
in” or “leadership of” debate is incidental, precisely because EL should be more com­
prehensive, including interactions with shareholders and, more broadly, the dyna­
mism of the phenomenon of entrepreneurship (Leitch and Volery 2017).
In summary, results show that several publications find EL and TL to overlap at 
the concept (e.g. Kimbu et al. 2021; Lyons et al. 2020) and construct (e.g. Fries et 
al. 2021; McCarthy et al. 2010) levels, while others argue for its value as a distinct 
construct (e.g. Harrison et al. 2020; Leitch and Volery 2017). In response to RQ1, it 
can be stated that a lack of clear and reciprocal engagement between theoretical work 
on EL and TL renders a determination of their overlap inconclusive, a result in line 
1 3
516
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
with previous reviews of EL (Antonakis and Autio 2012). As such, it is suggested that 
this area in particular could benefit from further study, a greater exchange between 
scholars, and a more nuanced integration of extant leadership frameworks into EL.
5.2  RQ2 (content)
The theoretical landscape is inconsistent, as demonstrated above. The effects these 
inconsistencies have exerted on the three measures of EL currently in use will now 
be charted to answer RQ2. Gupta et al.‘s conceptualization (2004) was chronologi­
cally the first of those still in use, and continues to inform current developments. It is 
however by no means unanimously adopted. Renko et al. (2015) specifically detract 
from the earlier measure, stating, among other concerns, that it was not specific to 
entrepreneurship, a suggestion seconded by Clark et al. (2019) in more recent works. 
Furthermore a number of its items were “characteristic of TL” (Renko et al. 2015, 
p. 60). In addition, this overlap with TL is admitted by the original authors (Gupta et 
al. 2004, p. 245). However, a more fundamental issue exists. Though largely ignored 
by those employing this measure, it was neither methodologically conceived nor 
suitably validated as a questionnaire. Gupta et al. themselves note that the GLOBE 
(House et al. 1999) data they employ was “not originally intended” for the develop­
ment of a novel construct (2004, p. 257), let alone the creation and validation of a 
new scale. In addition, their methodology in doing so was highly unorthodox. A first 
step saw five behaviors, deemed necessary for entrepreneurial leaders drawn from 
the existing concepts of TL, team-building, and value-based leadership (Gupta et 
al. 2004). As stated (Renko et al. 2015, p. 60), these five behaviors indeed appear 
significantly indebted to TL (e.g. “The articulation of a compelling vision”). In a 
number of further steps, five specific EL “roles” were established: framing the chal­
lenge, absorbing uncertainty, path-clearing, building commitment and specifying 
limits (Gupta et al. 2004, p. 247). Thereafter, the authors selected from 112 attributes 
of “outstanding leadership” contained in the GLOBE data-set a total of 19 that they 
“expected to load” onto the five previously established roles of EL (Gupta et al. 
2004, p. 249). However, though the following factor analysis yielded results deemed 
acceptable, and the subdimensions did indeed inter-correlate to an acceptable degree, 
the authors warn that “the fit indices for the confirmatory factor analysis at individual 
levels of analysis deteriorated substantially” (Gupta et al. 2004, p. 251). Furthermore, 
external validity was established only within the GLOBE data-set, by correlating EL 
with several Hofstede cultural dimensions deemed relevant to entrepreneurship, but 
only at the level of entire societies (Shane et al. 1995). Such claims of ecological 
validity have been sharply criticized, with regard to the GLOBE studies as a whole 
(Graen 2006). The above shows numerous diversions from standard practice of scale 
development, which normatively entails the creation of an item pool, either from 
solid conceptual foundations or from specific, related, previously validated scales; 
the administration of these items to multiple unique samples of respondents; and 
progressive exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses of these unique responses 
(DeVellis and Thorpe 2021). Leadership styles that were elucidated in accordance 
with this process include, among others, ethical leadership (Kalshoven et al. 2011), 
servant leadership (Van Dierendonck and Nuijten 2011), and authentic leadership 
1 3
517
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
(Walumbwa et al. 2008). Scale development for leadership-related constructs also 
follows this process, as seen in publications operationalizing Machiavellianism in 
leaders (Dahling et al. 2009) or leader-member-exchange (Liden and Maslyn 1998), 
among others.
However, Gupta et al.’s measure (2004) is employed as a questionnaire by numer­
ous researchers with only minor adaptation (e.g. Huang et al. 2014), demonstrating 
that this long and laborious process of explicit scale creation and validation has been 
curtailed (see e.g. Boateng et al. 2018; Hinkin 1995). In addition to being criticized 
for its similarity to TL (Renko et al. 2015), this scale should thus be viewed with 
caution with respect to validity. This issue is of central importance, as it may help 
to explain the large number of publications studying EL without recourse to either 
this measure or those derived from it (see Category IV in Results). Returning to 
the criticism leveled by Renko et al. (2015), that Gupta et al. (2004) overly relied 
on TL, it must be noted that the critics appear to fall prey to the same issue. Their 
ENTRELEAD scale is the most widely used questionnaire measure of a distinct 
EL style after Gupta et al. (2004), though this ratio is shifting as most authors now 
use ENTRELEAD (e.g. Dabić et al. 2021; Niemann et al. 2022). As detailed in the 
Results section, several items on the ENTRELEAD scale closely resemble items used 
to assess TL. Table 5 shows the ENTRELEAD scale (Renko et al. 2015) side by side 
with a shortened measure for TL by Carless et al. (2000). This same measure was 
used alongside ENTRELEAD to assess TL in two of the papers in the sample.
The last three items of each scale (Table 5) vary considerably. Aside from these, 
numerous items show strong similarities in meaning and formulation; the short 
length of each scale necessitates the assumption of considerable issues of confla­
tion. Furthermore, both the Gupta and Renko publications discuss the differences 
between EL and TL, and both list non-EL leadership behaviors. However, these lists 
differ on numerous points. For example, Gupta et al. (2004, p. 250) consider EL as 
encompassing an “Unusual ability to persuade others of his/her viewpoint”. This is 
Table 5  TL (Carless et al. 2000) and EL (Renko et al. 2015) scales, grouped according to similarity of item
Measure of TL by Carless et al. 2000
Measure of EL by Renko et al. 2015
● Encourages thinking about problems in new ways and 
questions assumptions
● Has creative solutions to problems
● Challenges and pushes me to act in a 
more
innovative way
● Wants me to challenge the current ways 
we do business
● Is clear about his/her values and practices what he/she 
preaches
● Instils pride and respect in others and inspires me by 
being highly competent
● Demonstrates passion for his/her work
● Communicates a clear and positive vision of the future
● Has a vision of the future of our 
business
● Treats staff as individuals, supports and encourages their 
development
● Gives encouragement and recognition to staff
● Fosters trust, involvement and cooperation among team 
members
● Often comes up with radical improve­
ment ideas for the products/services we 
are selling
● Often comes up with ideas of complete­
ly new products/services that we could sell
● Takes risks
1 3
518
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
reminiscent of charisma and charismatic leadership, which Renko et al. explicitly 
state is not a requirement for EL (2015, p. 57). Finally, the remaining items found on 
the ENTRELEAD scale (“Often comes up with radical improvement ideas for the 
products/services we are selling”, “Often comes up with ideas of completely new 
products/services that we could sell”, “Takes risks”) are in no direct way related 
to mainstream definitions of leadership, such as “a process whereby an individual 
influences a group of individuals to achieve a common goal” (Northouse 2018, p. 
43). This raises two main points. First, previous research has sought to unite aspects 
of strategic entrepreneurship with EL (Covin and Slevin 2002; Ireland et al. 2003). 
While this conceptual heritage is discussed by Renko et al. (2015), works from within 
mainstream leadership science which have responded to the limitations of such an 
approach, and suggested potential remedial steps, are not mentioned (e.g. Antonakis 
and Autio 2012).
Second, leadership research has shown eminent success in focusing on proximal, 
clearly definable behaviors salient in leader-follower interactions (Derue et al. 2011). 
This approach, if anything, is gathering momentum rather than being overtaken by 
other paradigms (e.g. Hemshorn de Sanchez et al. 2022). Aspects relevant to the 
leadership of venture instead of followers, such as opportunity recognition (Emami 
et al. 2022) or risk-taking, could represent interference in determining a leadership 
style in this manner. Until the role of leadership in entrepreneurship is clearer, any 
extraneous aspects should therefore be examined under the aegis of their respective 
conceptualizations; opportunity recognition and risk taking both have little to do with 
the leading of employees, and both have produced extensive, theoretically coherent 
research of their own (e.g. Angelsberger et al. 2017; Grégoire et al. 2010; Palich and 
Bagby 1995). For example, behaviors which encourage employees to take risks are 
a component of the style of leadership known as empowering (Cheong et al. 2019). 
However, this stands apart from a leader’s own tendency towards risk-taking, the 
measurement of which, in any case, can be accomplished with far greater subtlety 
and accuracy than through asking “Do you take risks?” (an item of ENTRELEAD, 
Renko et al. 2015; see in contrast Lejuez et al. 2002). A potential role-modeling effect 
may well be worth exploring (Newman et al. 2018), but this should be done in its own 
right, perhaps by examining leader perceptions as a mediating factor between leaders’ 
and followers’ displays of risk, instead of as an afterthought on leadership question­
naires. The same holds true for opportunity recognition. While some argue that such 
a distinction is not of primary importance (Leitch and Volery 2017), this overlooks 
the fact that many researchers seek to use conceptualizations of EL as they would, 
for example, the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (Antonakis 2001): as a con­
cretely quantifiable, questionnaire-measured, exogenous variable. This includes Cai 
et al. (2019), who explicitly state that “recently, scholars have consistently proposed 
the treatment of EL as a specific leadership style” (Cai et al. 2019, p. 205). Similarly, 
Newman et al. (2018) and Paudel (2019) use EL in this manner, as do numerous fur­
ther studies of EL not included in the present sample, such as by Dabić et al. (2021) 
or Mehmood et al. (2021b). In summary, it may be observed that the ENTRELEAD 
scale also suffers from certain issues of discriminant validity and overlap. This might 
serve to explain why, though the most frequently used of the three measures of EL, it 
1 3
519
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
was nevertheless disregarded in the many recent studies of EL which used scales of 
TL (see Sect. 4.4- Studies using transformational in lieu of EL).
Finally, results show that the most recent measure of EL by Bagheri and Harrison 
(2020) demonstrates the greatest divergence from scales of TL. As detailed above, 
this extensive questionnaire offers numerous items clearly distinct from TL, though 
several items continue to linger that seem highly indebted to it. In this, they strongly 
resemble the creation of the conceptualization by Gupta et al. (2004), whose theo­
retical foundation Bagheri and Harrison (2020) acknowledge as the basis for their 
own measure. Here, however, a number of issues emerge. The authors argue for the 
value of Gupta et al.’s (2004) scale as a basis, asserting that it is the most widely used 
scale of EL, and implicitly argue for its acceptance by scholars. However, this asser­
tion seems incongruous. First, numerous scholars have presented strongly opposing 
views (e.g. Harrison et al. 2018; Leitch et al. 2013; Leitch and Volery 2017), among 
them one of the two authors in recent publications (Harrison et al. 2016, 2020), who 
suggested that the underlying data-set was no longer relevant and had limited poten­
tial (Clark et al. 2019). Second, of the studies included in the recent meta-analysis 
by Lee et al. (2020), all four employed the ENTRELEAD scale (Renko et al. 2015), 
with two of these authored by the other author of the new measure (Bagheri 2017; 
Bagheri and Akbari 2018). At least one more recent publication by this author also 
used ENTRELEAD (Bagheri et al. 2022), as have an increasing number of others 
(e.g. Hensellek et al. 2023; Hoang et al. 2022; Lin and Yi 2022; Malibari and Bajaba 
2022; Strobl et al. 2022). Gupta et al.‘s conceptualization (2004) is thus by no means 
unanimously adopted which, particularly in light of the inherent conceptual and 
methodological issues discussed above, makes its use as the basis for a novel measure 
problematic. A further issue complicates the adoption of this novel scale: the lack of 
a coherent analysis of divergent validity via a nomological network. As stated in the 
Results section, while the scale is less dependent on TL, it nevertheless incorporates 
items typical of both this and other, established leadership styles. Previous work has 
pointed to the futility of introducing novel leadership styles that show high overlap 
with extant conceptualizations (Deng et al. 2022; see also Banks et al. 2016 and Hoch 
et al. 2018). Furthermore, and mirroring the issues surrounding ENTRELEAD, those 
items not representative of extant leadership styles largely fail to conform to a classi­
cal, theoretical appreciation of leadership as an influence process between leader and 
follower. The authors specifically state in the introduction to their paper that most 
previous measures of EL failed to focus on the “critical aspects of the construct such 
as risk taking, innovation …opportunity recognition” (Bagheri and Harrison 2020, p. 
660). This issue gains momentum from recognition of numerous results demonstrat­
ing the benefits of authentic (Jensen and Luthans 2006), autonomous (Felix et al. 
2018), charismatic (Men et al. 2021), empowering (Cheong et al. 2019), transactional 
(Ma and Jiang 2018) and shared leadership (Zhou et al. 2015) in entrepreneurship. 
Finally, whereas Bagheri and Harrison’s eight-dimensional model provided “accept­
able” model fit (2020, p. 670), this was not true of any proposed model which con­
sidered EL as a single-factor construct (p. 669), mirroring the measure by Gupta et al. 
(2004). This stands in contrast to most established leadership styles, which will often 
undergo combination into one overall variable measuring how strongly a certain style 
such as TL is expressed (Hughes et al. 2018). It is therefore uncertain whether this 
1 3
520
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
proposed, unified concept of EL shows an advantage in practice compared to the 
utilization of existing measures of leadership, risk taking behavior, and so forth. In 
other words, does it in fact capture one distinct, coherent entrepreneurial style of 
leadership?
In response to RQ2, therefore, a number of points may be observed. First, regard­
ing the content of their items, current questionnaire measures of EL overlap sig­
nificantly with TL. Second, there is a paucity of statistical analyses of discriminant 
validity, hampering the identification and dimensional elucidation of EL into TL and 
non-TL aspects. Third, non-overlapping items do not conform to a theoretical para­
digm in which leadership is a leader-follower influence process. Finally, several of 
the scales display issues with scale development and validation, calling into question 
their use.
5.3  RQ3 (practice)
Finally, RQ3 remains of whether the overlap between TL and EL was reflected at the 
level of empirical researchers examining it. The relationship between the conceptual 
foundations of these papers and the FRLT will also be discussed. Two groups of 
articles from the sample offer a substrate for discussion. First, there are the quantita­
tive and qualitative papers that explicitly used TL in lieu of EL; second, there were 
the few papers which quantitatively examined both EL and TL. The former group in 
particular appears only loosely connected to theoretical and operational conceptual­
izations of EL that claim it as a unique style. Overall, Category IV in particular shows 
the prevalence, only partially acknowledged by some (e.g. Harrison et al. 2020), 
of TL in the study of leadership within the field of entrepreneurship. Moreover, all 
these papers implicitly align with the FRLT’s conceptualization of leadership as an 
influence process between leader and follower. 11 papers within Category IV, all 
published after the appearance of the first measure explicitly designed for EL (Gupta 
et al. 2004), choose to use TL as locum tenens for EL. Xu and Jin (2022) touch on 
articles engaged in debating the constitution of EL (e.g. Leitch and Volery 2017), yet 
skirt entirely any acknowledgement of preexisting measures thereof, instead point­
ing to the “considerable body of research” which has demonstrated the effective­
ness of TL as EL (Xu and Jin 2022, p. 280). A further publication which regards 
the entrepreneur as a leader by default employs what it deems the most prominent 
theoretical paradigm in leadership: TL (Ensley et al. 2006). It should however be 
noted that this publication appeared a mere two years after the first concrete mea­
sure for entrepreneurship (Gupta et al. 2004). At this point, EL was only marginally 
established as a field in its own right, and the authors’ research was on “the leader­
ship of entrepreneurs” (Ensley et al. 2006, p. 246). However, Ng and Kee (2018) 
also use TL with reference to the body of previous research demonstrating its posi­
tive effects, as do five further publications of the 11 in this category (Baldegger and 
Gast 2016; Bamiatzi et al. 2015; Ensley et al. 2006; Hensel and Visser 2018; Ng et 
al. 2019). While the precise application of TL therein varies, the common thread is 
an implicit recognition of its utility as a measure in the context of EL. Some authors 
consciously argue for it. For example, one contribution embraces the dipolar nature 
of TL and transactional leadership to chart the evolution of leadership requirements 
1 3
521
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
in a maturing entrepreneurial venture (Baldegger and Gast 2016). As mentioned in 
the Results section, these authors specifically dismiss extant measures of EL, due to 
their inclusion of aspects deemed unrelated to leadership. Others however arrive at 
TL by default, in itself an interesting commentary on the acceptance of EL-scales 
(e.g. Ng and Kee 2018).
Noteworthy too is that this association of EL and TL extends beyond the Western 
sphere into work examining EL in Ghana and Nigeria (Kimbu et al. 2021) as well 
as in China (Wang et al. 2012). While acknowledging the existence of a measure for 
EL (Gupta et al. 2004), these authors deem its conceptual development to be at an 
“embryonic stage,” and thus decide to follow in what they view as standard practice, 
drawing on mainstream leadership literature (Wang et al. 2012, p. 507). Represent­
ing scholars from both the fields of leadership (e.g. Baldegger and Gast 2016) and 
entrepreneurship (Verma and Kumar 2021), these publications offer strong support to 
the notion that, at the level of empirical research practice, EL and TL appear indistin­
guishable. This trend stands in marked contrast to the previously detailed assertions 
of the wide adoption of EL scales in the study of EL (Bagheri and Harrison 2020). 
Moreover, it opens up the question of why a swathe of recent reviews on EL skirt 
the central role TL has in measuring it in practice (e.g. Clark et al. 2019; Leitch and 
Volery 2017). Even so, most authors in the sample examined do not go so far as to 
claim that EL and TL are identical. However, the study examining Russian EL style 
inductively found that most entrepreneurs applied a style “consistent with the char­
acteristics of transformational leadership” (McCarthy et al. 2010, p. 55). This offers 
firm credence to the relevance of TL within entrepreneurship, as well as intimating 
further the inherent, construct-level overlap between TL and EL (McCarthy et al. 
2010).
This certainly provides a partial answer to RQ3 by demonstrating that empiri­
cal practice often considers TL and EL synonymous, confirming previous research 
which finds TL to be used as EL “routinely” (Reid et al. 2018, p. 152). However, a 
final portion of the sample remains to be discussed: those results which quantitatively 
examined TL and EL together. A caveat is the publication by Paudel (2018), which 
instead successfully replicated results linking TL with innovation using a measure 
of EL (Renko et al. 2015). This result may well be explained by Paudel’s use of the 
ENTRELEAD scale, and the similarity with TL regarding item content discussed 
above. With these similarities in mind, an examination of the meta-analysis by Lee 
et al. (2020) may be illuminating. As stated above, it found significant correlations 
between innovation and EL as well as TL, with EL outperforming TL as a predic­
tor. Central to answering the RQs of the present review, however, is their finding a 
relationship of ρ = 0.93 between EL and TL (Lee et al. 2020), even though EL was 
examined across only four samples, two of which are included in the present review. 
While the scale used in one publication could not be ascertained, at least three used 
ENTRELEAD; the high correlation between EL and TL, as demonstrated at an 
item level in Table 5, is therefore confirmed in statistical analysis. The two samples 
included here, also found in Lee et al. (2020), are those by Cai et al. (2019) who mea­
sured creativity, and Newman et al. (2018), who measured innovation. Upon closer 
examination, these two studies paint a picture whose contrast could not be stronger, 
even though both employed the ENTRELEAD scale alongside the same, shortened 
1 3
522
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
instrument for TL by Carless et al. (2000; see Table 5). As detailed in Results, Cai et 
al. (2019) found strong positive effects between EL and various aspects of creativity. 
Simultaneously, they found no correlation between EL and TL, remarkable given the 
visible item-level content shared by these two scales (see Table 5 above). However, 
any elucidation of item-level correlations is lacking which might precisely reveal 
whence these wildly diverging correlations between two such similar measures stem, 
as is any substantive discussion (see Cai et al. 2019, p. 212-4). This is regrettable, 
as it is these that would offer valuable insights into the precise mechanism through 
which EL offers such substantial gains over TL in the prediction of creativity, an area 
in which TL has repeatedly proven itself in the past (Gumusluoglu and Ilsev 2009; 
Jung et al. 2003; Shin and Zhou 2003). Both this publication and that by Newman 
et al. (2018) adduce Bandura’s social cognitive theory (1986) to conceptualize the 
transposition of behaviors such as risk taking from leaders to followers. Within this 
tripartite agentic distinction made by Bandura (2001), the definition of agent refers to 
“producers as well as products of social systems,” reminiscent of the definition of an 
entrepreneur as issued by Gartner et al. (1992). The question posed in the introduc­
tion thus reemerges. Is it currently possible to measure EL without measuring TL? 
One last set of results may illuminate the answer.
Using the two exact same questionnaire measures and a larger sample, Newman 
et al. (2018) find wildly differing results from Cai et al. (2019). Specifically, they 
confirmed the predictive effect of EL on innovation, but found a similar effect for 
TL. Their results present themselves far more in line both with the overlap visible in 
Table 5 between EL and TL, and the authors’ own argumentation, who acknowledge 
both the similarities between EL and TL, and the predictive effects of TL on creativ­
ity. Such a strong contrast with the results of Cai et al. (2019) cautions patience for 
further findings. The divergent results in this case may rest on the difference between 
creativity and innovation, even though the two are intrinsically related (Anderson et 
al. 2014). However, the value of TL for both creativity and innovation, considered 
“inseparable” from entrepreneurship (Gilad 1984, p. 151) is not only empirically 
established (Gumusluoglu and Ilsev 2009), but clear causal paths for this effect have 
also been traced and elaborated upon theoretically (Jung et al. 2003). By eliciting 
high motivation and increasing followers’ self-esteem and self-worth, transforma­
tional leaders increase spontaneous acts of innovation (Mumford et al. 2002). Indi­
vidual consideration serves as a reward, while intellectual stimulation specifically 
fosters novel and creative thinking (Sosik et al. 1998). However, more vital than the 
conflicting findings regarding creativity and innovation is the following. Newman et 
al. (2018) find a strong correlation between TL and EL (r = .81, p < .05), suggesting 
that recent studies using ENTRELEAD may have measured TL, rather than some 
distinctly unique style of EL (e.g. Dabić et al. 2021; Mehmood et al. 2021a; Mehm­
ood et al. 2021b; Niemann et al. 2022; Pauceanu et al. 2021). The relationship found 
by Newman et al. (2018) between the ENTRELEAD scale and Carless et al.’s (2000) 
measure of TL clearly indicates an almost complete lack of divergent validity at the 
instrument level (r = .81, p < .05; Newman et al. 2018), particularly given that the 
result is confirmed in meta-analysis (ρ = 0.93; SDρ = 0.04; Lee et al. 2020).
With respect to Question 3, the present analysis thus finds that, in practice, TL 
and EL are poorly separated. Numerous authors consider TL as representing EL, and 
1 3
523
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
many authors use TL by default when measuring EL, acknowledging the conceptu­
alization of leadership inherent to the FRLT. Meanwhile, statistical results directly 
comparing the two may be termed inconclusive at best (Cai et al. 2019). At worst, 
results cast serious doubt on the discriminant validity of currently available measures 
of EL versus TL (Newman et al. 2018; Lee et al. 2020).
6  Conclusion
The present review examined the relationship between TL and EL across a sample 
of 25 articles and over various levels of analysis. A number of key findings can be 
stated in answer to the RQs posed in the Introduction. RQ1 concerned the conceptual 
overlap and distinction between EL and TL. We found a cluster of conceptual work 
advocating EL as a form or paradigm of leadership distinct from TL; differences 
here include for example the incorporation of strategically oriented behaviors such 
as opportunity recognition (Harrison et al. 2020; Leitch and Volery 2017). However, 
we also find that work hailing from the wider leadership literature fails to appreciate 
this distinction in numerous instances, with most authors considering EL and TL as 
overlapping both conceptually (Kimbu et al. 2021; Lyons et al. 2020) and at the level 
of concrete, defined constructs (Fries et al. 2021; McCarthy et al. 2010). The analysis 
suggests a need for greater mutual fertilization of concepts and methods between the 
field of EL and leadership studies as a contributing factor. RQ2 examined the over­
lap of currently available measures of EL and TL, with two key findings to report. 
First, the three available scales of EL contain items at odds with the widely used 
understanding of leadership as an interpersonal influence process directed towards 
the achievement of shared goals. Aspects of EL such as opportunity recognition fall 
outside this conceptual paradigm, an issue considered problematic by researchers in 
the field (e.g. Baldegger and Gast 2016). Those items that do conform to the interper­
sonal understanding of leadership demonstrate a high degree of overlap with TL. For 
example, items of the ENTRELEAD that measure interpersonal leadership are prac­
tically indistinguishable from items from TL scales. Second, all three scales suffer to 
varying degrees from issues of validation and model fit. The most recent contribution 
appears least afflicted, representing a valuable step towards an operational definition 
of EL (Bagheri and Harrison 2020). Testing for discriminant validity versus TL is 
however lacking, while overlap in item content is notable. Finally, RQ3 sought an 
answer to the role of TL in measuring EL, and the testimony of available quantita­
tive results examining both EL and TL. In response, it is found that many researchers 
continue to use TL to measure EL for various reasons (e.g. Lyons et al. 2020; Ng et 
al. 2019). Available EL scales have thus failed to gain overarching acceptance as 
measures of EL. Moreover, quantitative examinations have failed to show a defini­
tive degree of discriminant validity between EL and TL, with some results indicating 
almost complete overlap (Newman et al. 2018; Lee et al. 2020).
Our study offers a first critical, up-to-date examination of the overlap between TL 
and the fragmented scholarship surrounding EL. We draw firm conclusions based on 
the examination of conceptual developments, research practice, and previous empiri­
cal findings. In summary, the present contribution thus creates a road map for those 
1 3
524
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
measuring and studying EL, and points out several significant issues and discursive 
paradigms the researcher should be aware of. Moreover, we embed the nascent lit­
erature on EL within the broader, more accepted theoretical framework of the FRLT. 
This lays a path towards an increased exploration of EL by mainstream leadership 
research and, in particular, an increase in scholarly communication and exchange. 
The limitations of the present study, the implications of the findings and suggestions 
for future research are offered below.
6.1  Limitations
The present contribution claimed to clarify the interplay between EL and TL, seeking 
to curb the catachresis plaguing EL research. However, this paper is subject to a num­
ber of limitations. First and most importantly, the scope of the review was not exhaus­
tive. The present SLR followed a structured and literature-based approach. Despite 
this, it is impossible to guarantee that all relevant articles were included in the data­
bases chosen. As stated in Sect. 2.1, only articles that explicitly mentioned TL and 
EL were examined. For a more comprehensive picture, this pool could be expanded 
along two dimensions. First, research could be included that explicitly examines TL 
within organizations that are emphasizing entrepreneurial action, such as those in the 
process of spinning off sub-units, acquiring startups, or engaging in corporate ventur­
ing. In short, this could identify organizational contexts in which leadership is exam­
ined that falls under a broad definition of EL, but where the specific term is not used. 
Conversely, all papers could be included which explicitly examine EL, and from 
these only those that examine leadership behaviors typical of TL without explicitly 
employing the term. A second limitation lies in the comparative brevity with which 
some of the articles were necessarily treated for the sake of space. The statistical 
results in Cai et al. (2019), Newman et al. (2018), and Lee et al. (2020) would for 
example permit a far more in-depth discussion with respect to RQ3. Finally, several 
review articles with interesting insights fell outside the bounds of this sample because 
they were either thematically off-point, not found in any of the databases examined 
(e.g. Clark and Harrison 2019; Clark et al. 2019), or the impact factor of the publish­
ing journal was below 1 (Harrison et al. 2016).
6.2  Implications
The current study contributes by offering theoretical implications in three areas of lit­
erature where gaps were observed. First, we have provided an important contribution 
to the wider, fragmented discourse on entrepreneurial leaders. We offer a road map by 
showing that research past (e.g. Ensley et al. 2006; Wang et al. 2012) and present (e.g. 
Ng et al. 2019; Verma and Kumar 2021) employ TL as a valid adjunct to measuring 
EL, and by demonstrating that the use of current measures of EL (Bagheri and Har­
rison 2020; Gupta et al. 2004; Renko et al. 2015) is plagued by issues. Specifically, 
their use guarantees neither measurement of EL, as opposed to TL, nor measurement 
of leadership behaviors, as accepted under the widely acclaimed FRLT paradigm. 
Further, two of three available EL questionnaires failed to provide conclusive, sta­
tistical evidence for a unified construct of EL (Bagheri and Harrison 2020; Gupta et 
1 3
525
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
al. 2004). The recent inclusion of additional leadership concepts such as empowering 
or self-leadership (Harrison and Bagheri 2020; cf. Cheong et al. 2019; Houghton et 
al. 2003) fails to ameliorate the lack of cross-validation and dedicated sampling for 
discriminant validity, and our findings thus contribute by demonstrating that mea­
surement of EL should be accompanied by, at minimum, a proven questionnaire 
measure of TL (e.g. Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire, Bass and Avolio 1997). 
Such combined use would permit meta-analysis of its divergent validity and enable 
further refinement or dimensional reduction. Moreover, we find an increasing number 
of studies employing the ENTRELEAD scale (Renko et al. 2015), most by entre­
preneurship researchers, whose familiarity with leadership literature may be limited 
(e.g. Dabić et al. 2021; Mehmood et al. 2021a; Mehmood et al. 2021b; Pauceanu et 
al. 2021). Our contribution is therefore a demonstration to these researchers of the 
issues with EL-measures noted above.
We further contribute to the ongoing discourse by drawing together previous 
research to show that TL provides four concrete, theoretically elucidated sub-dimen­
sions that are suitable for further analysis of EL outcomes (e.g. Hensel and Visser 
2018; Lee et al. 2020), and that TL has the ability to transcend cultural boundaries 
(Crede et al. 2019). This has been specifically demonstrated for entrepreneurial lead­
ers in various cultures (Kimbu et al. 2021; Wang et al. 2012). The FRLT additionally 
provides an equally validated, alternative style, transactional leadership, which is 
effective in many other contexts. Finally, it delineates a concrete, ineffective, nega­
tive leadership style: laissez-faire (Antonakis 2001).Our study also contributes by 
outlining that non-TL items on current measures of EL largely reflect non-leadership 
aspects, such as opportunity recognition, and suggest their measurement via dedi­
cated instruments. For example, entrepreneurial opportunity recognition has recently 
been measured by examining both perceived proficiency in recognizing opportuni­
ties, as well as by gauging the actual number of opportunities exploited (Maran et al. 
2021).
Second, we contribute to the literature by contextualizing the work of a core com­
munity of EL researchers (e.g. Harrison et al. 2016; Leitch and Volery 2017), which 
claims a high degree of authority and centrality in EL matters. By examining it from 
the perspective of leadership research, our study offers more insights into the practice 
of EL research as currently found around the world. Despite claims that EL is a dis­
tinct and valid construct, the present study finds that EL, as an operationalized set of 
behaviors that portray the leader-follower influence process, has yet to be established. 
Our work therefore contributes directly to the debate by offering as a primary goal the 
differentiation of EL from other extant, mainstream styles of leadership, such as trans­
formational (Bass 1985), empowering (Cheong et al. 2019), and authentic leadership 
(Jensen and Luthans 2006). While Bagheri and Harrison’s (2020) recent measure of 
EL has taken great strides in this direction, we contribute by demonstrating how this 
and other measures diverge from accepted norms of scale development, and by sug­
gesting the outline of a process of scale development and validation to remedy this. In 
addition, our study contributes by clearly connecting the currently confused picture 
of EL-TL measurement, both in terms of research practice and conflicting statistical 
results, with this non-normative history of development of EL scales. We further offer 
a modest contribution to this process by pointing to previous literature reviews which 
1 3
526
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
could serve as groundwork for ongoing development, and which have determined 
traits such as tenacity, a need for power and control, charisma, flexibility and an 
internal locus of control to be related to EL (e.g. Harrison et al. 2016). However, the 
authors caution that the leadership literature itself has observed an overproliferation 
of leadership styles, and empirical testing has repeatedly revealed purportedly new 
leadership styles such as authentic or empowering as overlapping significantly with 
TL (Deng et al. 2022).
Third, the present study provides a modest contribution to the leadership literature. 
We carry on and strengthen work by Fries et al. (2021) and Ried et al. (2018), which 
sought to examine EL as one of numerous styles. The present review details several 
areas of distinction and overlap between EL and other, established styles of leader­
ship. Furthermore, we offer additional support to the recent findings which indicate 
that a proliferation of leadership styles may often fail to provide extra value beyond 
TL (Deng et al. 2022; cf. Shaffer et al. 2016). Overall, we provide value by couching 
the current, fragmented literature on EL more clearly in the terminology of main­
stream leadership research, thus hopefully opening the door for a renewed “assault” 
on the delineation of EL’s fundamental building blocks.
Our study also contributes by providing several managerial implications. The 
holistic approach taken by EL research noted above, while hindering scale develop­
ment, may be useful in obtaining a coherent and comprehensive understanding of 
EL in the field. However, considering the overlap of current definitions of EL with 
TL (e.g. Newman et al. 2018), the implication for managerial practice is clearly that 
TL is a suitable style in many contexts with entrepreneurial features. This is further 
inferred by the many studies that purport to examine EL using the ENTRELEAD 
scale, which find some positive effect of EL on a variety of outcomes (Dabić et al. 
2021; Mehmood et al. 2021a, b). As stated in the Discussion, ENTRELEAD overlaps 
considerably with TL. Taken together with recent findings from the field of leader­
ship, our study thus contributes to transfer and practice by underlining the value of 
TL versus novel models of leadership (Deng et al. 2022). Therefore, professionals in 
management and human resources may consider TL as representing a key leadership 
style for entrepreneurial ventures. With regard to policy implications, our findings 
contribute by suggesting that TL may be used as an adjunct to EL in the training of 
entrepreneurs. This concerns executive education, which has shown that entrepre­
neurship and an entrepreneurial mindset can be aided by educational means (e.g. 
Bachmann et al. 2021). Until a true, distinct leadership style of EL is found and 
widely accepted, therefore, the use of TL to cover the leadership aspect of entrepre­
neurship may be considered as representing best practice. The vision communication 
and charisma of the transformational leader has persistently been shown to encourage 
exceptional performance in employees (Ng 2017); their intellectual stimulation has 
proven vital in breaching the boundaries of convention, and delivering innovations of 
product, service or business model (e.g. Begum et al. 2022). The individual consid­
eration awarded followers has repeatedly engendered job satisfaction, low turnover, 
and improved personal outcomes in the examined samples (e.g. Alwali and Alwali 
2022). Our findings further contribute by suggesting that executive education and 
transfer make use of dedicated resources for non-leadership EL components, such as 
opportunity recognition, supplementary to TL.
1 3
527
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
6.3  Future research directions
The authors identify two main areas that could benefit from further inquiry. First, 
we encourage future research to create a clear definition differentiating EL “in” ver­
sus “of” (entrepreneurial ventures). The owner-entrepreneur who leads might show 
“leadership of” behaviors, but his subordinates within a startup who lead employees 
may only show “leadership in” behaviors. Separating these precedes the elucidation 
of a concrete, behavioral delineation of EL to capture the “leadership in” compo­
nent (Antonakis and Autio 2012), in line with the dominant paradigm of leadership 
research, the FRLT (Bass and Avolio 1997). A wider understanding of EL, one that 
does not focus on leader-follower behaviors, may be termed a “leadership of” under­
standing. However, such an understanding of EL overlaps significantly with research 
into entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial orientation (Covin et al. 2020), given its inclu­
sion of risk-taking (Renko et al. 2015) and opportunity recognition (e.g. Bagheri and 
Harrison 2020). Separating EL “in” versus “of” represents a necessary step which 
several authors have already taken (Ng and Kee 2018; Ng et al. 2019; Harrison et 
al. 2018) proposed a differentiation between internally and externally driven studies 
on EL. Similarly, Antonakis and Autio (2012) assigned extant leadership styles to 
phases of the entrepreneurial venture such as Precreation, Start-up and Consolida­
tion. We suggest both as useful starting points for further examining and defining 
EL. Dismissing all non-behavioral aspects of EL could impede a full appreciation 
of entrepreneurship’s economic and social value (Antonakis and Autio 2012), while 
more carefully separating its dimensions could lead to a more granular appreciation 
of EL as a procedural phenomenon. Context is a crucial if often overlooked aspect 
in leadership (Liden and Antonakis 2009; Lowe and Gardner 2000), particularly in 
entrepreneurship. For example, when pre-founding, the entrepreneur by necessity 
must be a risk-taker and opportunity seeker; later, management and leadership often 
replace these attributes in terms of importance (Alvarez and Barney 2007; Gray et al. 
2003). We suggest that future research should further engage with such differences 
(Baldegger and Gast 2016), in line with Cogliser and Brigham’s (2004) foundational 
definition of EL.
Second, moving beyond the “leadership in” versus “leadership of” issue, there 
is a drastic lack of substantive research on the concrete leader behaviors shown by 
female entrepreneurs. Although some studies do exist (e.g. Harrison et al. 2018; 
Yousafzai et al. 2015), they are far too few (Clark et al. 2019). A further aspect is that 
of “co-leadership.” While entrepreneurial ventures, in particular the modern, “techie” 
startup, often rely on teams of founders sharing leadership responsibilities at both the 
managerial and strategic levels (Ensley et al. 2006), no current conceptualization of 
EL directly addresses this interpersonal perspective, even though the paradigm of 
leader-member-exchange would lend itself to such an investigation (Leitch and Vol­
ery 2017). This reflects a wider issue, i.e. that conceptualizations of EL which take a 
less leader-centric approach may well be worth exploring, as mentioned by previous 
reviewers of the field (Leitch and Harrison 2018a).
Supplementary Information  The online version contains supplementary material available at https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11846-023-00649-6.
1 3
528
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
Authors Contribution  MF and TRB contributed to the preliminary conception and design of the systematic 
literature review, and carried out literature collation and analysis. The draft of the manuscript in its present 
form was written by AK and TRB; all authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Funding  The authors declare that no funds, grants, or other support were received to support the prepara­
tion of this manuscript, and that they have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose.
Open access funding provided by University of Liechtenstein
Data Availability  Regarding the underlying data, the papers which form the sample underlying the present 
SLR are available from the databases stated in the manuscript.
Open Access  This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, 
which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long 
as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative 
Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this 
article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line 
to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use 
is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission 
directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/.
References
Ahmed F, Harrison C (2021) Challenges and competencies of entrepreneurial leaders in driving innova­
tion at DIY laboratories. Technol Anal Strateg 33(10):1132–1146. https://doi.org/10.1080/0953732
5.2021.1908538
Ahmed F, Harrison C (2022) Entrepreneurial leadership development in teams: a conceptual model. Int J 
Entrep Innov Manag. https://doi.org/10.1177/14657503221143977
Alaassar A, Mention AL, Aas TH (2022) Facilitating innovation in FinTech: a review and research agenda. 
Rev Manag Sci 17:1–34. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11846-022-00531-x
Alvarez SA, Barney JB (2007) Discovery and creation: alternative theories of entrepreneurial action. 
Strateg Entrep J 1(1–2):11–26. https://doi.org/10.1002/sej.4
Alwali J, Alwali W (2022) The relationship between emotional intelligence, transformational leadership, 
and performance: a test of the mediating role of job satisfaction. Leadersh Organ Dev. https://doi.
org/10.1108/LODJ-10-2021-0486. J (ahead-of-print)
Amabile TM (1996) Creativity and innovation in organizations. Harvard Business School, Boston
Anderson N, Potočnik K, Zhou J (2014) Innovation and creativity in organizations: a state-of-the-science 
review, prospective commentary, and guiding framework. J Manag 40(5):1297–1333. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0149206314527128
Angelsberger M, Kraus S, Mas-Tur A, Roig-Tierno N (2017) International opportunity recognition: an 
overview. J Small Bus Strategy 27(1):19–36
Antonakis J (2001) The validity of the transformational, transactional, and laissez-faire leadership model as 
measured by the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (MLQ 5X). Walden University, Minneapolis
Antonakis J, Autio E (2012) Entrepreneurship and leadership: the psychology of entrepreneurship. In: 
Baum JR, Frese M, Baron RA (eds) The psychology of entrepreneurship. Lawrence Erlbaum Associ­
ates Publishers, Mahwah, pp 189–208
Antonakis J, Bastardoz N, Jacquart P, Shamir B (2016) Charisma: an ill-defined and ill-mea­
sured gift. Annu Rev Organ Psychol Organ Behav 3:293–319. https://doi.org/10.1146/
annurev-orgpsych-041015-062305
Avolio BJ (2010) Full range leadership development. SAGE Publications, New York City
Bachmann AK, Maran T, Furtner M, Brem A, Welte M (2021) Improving entrepreneurial self-efficacy 
and the attitude towards starting a business venture. Rev Manag Sci 15:1707–1727. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11846-020-00394-0
1 3
529
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
Bagheri A (2017) The impact of entrepreneurial leadership on innovation work behavior and opportu­
nity recognition in high-technology SMEs. J High Technol Manag Res 28:159–166. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.hitech.2017.10.003
Bagheri A, Akbari M (2018) The impact of entrepreneurial leadership on nurses’ innovation behavior. J 
Nurs Scholarsh 50:28–35. https://doi.org/10.1111/jnu.12354
Bagheri A, Harrison C (2020) Entrepreneurial leadership measurement: a multi-dimensional construct. J 
Small Bus Enterp Dev 27(4):659–679. https://doi.org/10.1108/jsbed-01-2019-0027
Bagheri A, Newman A, Eva N (2022) Entrepreneurial leadership of CEOs and employees’ innovative 
behavior in high-technology new ventures. J Small Bus Manag 60:805–827. https://doi.org/10.1080
/00472778.2020.1737094
Baker T, Nelson RE (2005) Creating something from nothing: resource construction through entrepreneur­
ial bricolage. Adm Sci Q 50:329–366. https://doi.org/10.2189/asqu.2005.50.3.329
Baldegger U, Gast J (2016) On the emergence of leadership in new ventures. Int J Entrep Behav Res 
22(6):933–957. https://doi.org/10.1108/ijebr-11-2015-0242
Bamiatzi V, Jones S, Mitchelmore S, Nikolopoulos K (2015) The role of competencies in shaping the 
Leadership style of female entrepreneurs: the case of North West of England, Yorkshire, and North 
Wales. J Small Bus Manag 53:627–644. https://doi.org/10.1111/jsbm.12173
Bandura A (1986) Social foundations of thought and action: a social cognitive theory. Prentice-Hall, Upper 
Saddle River
Bandura A (2001) Social cognitive theory: an agentic perspective. Annu Rev Psychol 52:1–26. https://doi.
org/10.1146/annurev.psych.52.1.1
Banks GC, Dionne SD, Mast MS, Sayama H (2022) Leadership in the digital era: a review of who, what, 
when, where, and why. Leadersh Q 33:101634. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2022.101634
Banks GC, Engemann KN, Williams CE, Gooty J, McCauley KD, Medaugh MR (2017) A meta-analytic 
review and future research agenda of charismatic leadership. Leadersh Q 28(4):508–529. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2016.12.003
Bass BM (1985) Leadership and performance beyond expectations. Collier Macmillan, New York City
Bass BM, Avolio BJ (1997) Full range leadership development: Manual for the Multifactor Leadership 
Questionnaire. Mind Garden, Menlo Park
Baumol WJ (1968) Entrepreneurship in economic theory.Am Econ Rev64–71
Becherer RC, Mendenhall ME, Eickhoff KF (2008) Separated at birth: an inquiry on the conceptual inde­
pendence of the entrepreneurship and the leadership constructs. N Engl J Entrep 11(2):13–27. https://
doi.org/10.1108/NEJE-11-02-2008-B002
Begum S, Ashfaq M, Xia E, Awan U (2022) Does green transformational leadership lead to green innova­
tion? The role of green thinking and creative process engagement. Bus Strategy Environ 31(1):580–
597. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2911
Bichler BF, Kallmünzer A, Peters M (2022) Get on Task: a pragmatic Tutorial on Planning and conduct­
ing a systematic literature review. In: Okumus F, Rasoolimanesh SM, Jahani S (eds) Contemporary 
Research Methods in Hospitality and Tourism. Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley, pp 39–53
Boateng GO, Neilands TB, Frongillo EA, Melgar-Quiñonez HR, Young SL (2018) Best practices for 
developing and validating scales for health, social, and behavioral research: a primer. Front Public 
Health 6:149. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpubh.2018.00149
Burns JM (1978) Leadership. Harper and Row, New York
Brush CG, Greene PG, Hart MM (2001) From initial idea to unique advantage: the entrepreneurial chal­
lenge of constructing a resource base. Acad Manag Perspect 15(1):64–78. https://doi.org/10.5465/
ame.2001.4251394
Cai W, Lysova EI, Khapova SN, Bossink BA (2019) Does entrepreneurial leadership foster creativity 
among employees and teams? The mediating role of creative efficacy beliefs. J Bus Psychol 34:203–
217. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-018-9536-y
Carless SA, Wearing AJ, Mann L (2000) A short measure of transformational leadership. J Bus Psychol 
14:389–405. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1022991115523
Carlsson B, Braunerhjelm P, McKelvey M, Olofsson C, Persson L, Ylinenpää H (2013) The evolv­
ing domain of entrepreneurship research. Small Bus Econ 41:913–930. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11187-013-9503-y
Carsrud AL, Johnson RW (1989) Entrepreneurship: a social psychological perspective. Entrep Reg Dev 
1(1):21–31. https://doi.org/10.1080/08985628900000003
Chandler GN, Jansen E (1992) The founder’s self-assessed competence and venture performance. J Bus 
Ventur 7(3):223–236. https://doi.org/10.1016/0883-9026(92)90028-P
1 3
530
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
Chell E, Haworth J, Brearley S (1991) The entrepreneurial personality, vol 16. Routledge, London
Cheong M, Yammarino FJ, Dionne SD, Spain SM, Tsai CY (2019) A review of the effectiveness of 
empowering leadership. Leadersh Q 30(1):34–58. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2018.08.005
Clark CM, Harrison C (2019) Entrepreneurship: an assimilated multi-perspective review. J Small Bus 
Entrep 31(1):43–71. https://doi.org/10.1080/08276331.2018.1446665
Clark CM, Harrison C, Gibb S (2019) Developing a conceptual Framework of Entrepreneurial Leadership: 
a systematic literature review and thematic analysis.Int Rev Entrep17(3)
Cliff JE, Langton N, Aldrich HE (2005) Walking the talk? Gendered rhetoric vs. action in small firms. 
Organ Stud 26(1):63–91. https://doi.org/10.1177/0170840605046490
Cogliser CC, Brigham KH (2004) The intersection of leadership and entrepreneurship: mutual lessons to 
be learned. Leadersh Q 15(6):771–799. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2004.09.004
Covin JG, Rigtering JC, Hughes M, Kraus S, Cheng CF, Bouncken RB (2020) Individual and team entre­
preneurial orientation: scale development and configurations for success. J Bus Res 112:1–12. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2020.02.023
Covin JG, Slevin DP (2002) The entrepreneurial imperatives of strategic leadership. In: Hitt MA, Ireland 
RD, Camp SM, Sexton DL (eds) Strategic Entrepreneurship: creating a New Mindset. Blackwell 
Publishers, Oxford, pp 309–327
Crede M, Jong J, Harms P (2019) The generalizability of transformational leadership across cultures: a 
meta-analysis. J Manag Psychol 34(3):139–155. https://doi.org/10.1108/JMP-11-2018-0506
Crupi A, Liu S, Liu W (2022) The top-down pattern of social innovation and social entrepreneurship. Bri­
colage and agility in response to COVID‐19: cases from China. R&D Manag 52(2):313–330. https://
doi.org/10.1111/radm.12499
Cunningham JB, Lischeron J (1991) Defining entrepreneurship. J Small Bus Manag 29:45–61
Dabić M, Stojčić N, Simić M, Potocan V, Slavković M, Nedelko Z (2021) Intellectual agility and inno­
vation in micro and small businesses: the mediating role of entrepreneurial leadership. J Bus Res 
123:683–695. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2020.10.013
Dahling JJ, Whitaker BG, Levy PE (2009) The development and validation of a new Machiavellianism 
scale. J Manag 35(2):219–257. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206308318618
De Jesus SN, Rus CL, Lens W, Imaginário S (2013) Intrinsic motivation and creativity related to product: 
a meta-analysis of the studies published between 1990–2010. Creat Res J 25(1):80–84. https://doi.
org/10.1080/10400419.2013.752235
Deng C, Gulseren D, Isola C, Grocutt K, Turner N (2022) Transformational leadership effectiveness: an 
evidence-based primer. Hum Resour Dev Int. https://doi.org/10.1080/13678868.2022.2135938
Derue DS, Nahrgang JD, Wellman NED, Humphrey SE (2011) Trait and behavioral theories of leadership: 
an integration and meta-analytic test of their relative validity. Pers Psychol 64(1):7–52. https://doi.
org/10.1111/j.1744-6570.2010.01201.x
DeVellis RF, Thorpe CT (2021) Scale development: theory and applications. SAGE, London
Deyanova K, Brehmer N, Lapidus A, Tiberius V, Walsh S (2022) Hatching start-ups for sustainable 
growth: a bibliometric review on business incubators. Rev Manag Sci 16(7):2083–2109. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11846-022-00525-9
Dongul ES, Artantaş E (2022) Exploring the link between social work, entrepreneurial leadership, social 
embeddedness, social entrepreneurship and firm performance: a case of SMES owned by chinese 
ethnic community in Turkey. https://doi.org/10.1108/JEC-11-2021-0162. J Enterp Communities 
(ahead-of-print)
Dvir T, Eden D, Avolio BJ, Shamir B (2002) Impact of transformational leadership on follower development 
and performance: a field experiment. Acad Manag J 45(4):735–744. https://doi.org/10.2307/3069307
Emami A, Ashourizadeh S, Sheikhi S, Rexhepi G (2022) Entrepreneurial propensity for market analysis 
in the time of COVID-19: benefits from individual entrepreneurial orientation and opportunity confi­
dence. Rev Manag Sci 16(8):2413–2439. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11846-021-00499-0
Ensley MD, Pearce CL, Hmieleski KM (2006) The moderating effect of environmental dynamism on the 
relationship between entrepreneur leadership behavior and new venture performance. J Bus Ventur 
21(2):243–263. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusvent.2005.04.006
Eva N, Robin M, Sendjaya S, van Dierendonck D, Liden RC (2019) Servant leadership: a systematic review 
and call for future research. Leadersh Q 30(1):111–132. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2018.07.004
Faridian PH (2023) Leading open innovation: the role of strategic entrepreneurial leadership in orchestra­
tion of value creation and capture in GitHub open source communities. Technovation 119:102546. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.technovation.2022.102546
1 3
531
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
Felix C, Aparicio S, Urbano D (2018) Leadership as a driver of entrepreneurship: an international explor­
atory study. J Small Bus Enterp Dev 26(3):397–420. https://doi.org/10.1108/jsbed-03-2018-0106
Fernald LW, Solomon GT, Tarabishy A (2005) A new paradigm: entrepreneurial leadership. South Bus 
Rev 30(2):1–10
Feser D (2022) Innovation intermediaries revised: a systematic literature review on innovation interme­
diaries’ role for knowledge sharing. Rev Manag Sci. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11846-022-00593-x
Figueroa-Domecq C, de Jong A, Williams AM (2020) Gender, tourism & entrepreneurship: a critical 
review. Ann Tour Res 84:102980. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annals.2020.102980
Freeman D, Siegfried RL (2015) Entrepreneurial leadership in the context of company start-up and growth. 
J Leadersh Stud 8(4):35–39. https://doi.org/10.1002/jls.21351
Fries A, Kammerlander N, Leitterstorf M (2021) Leadership styles and leadership behaviors in family 
firms: a systematic literature review. J Fam Bus Strategy 12(1):100374. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.
JFBS.2020.100374
García-Morales VJ, Jiménez-Barrionuevo MM, Gutiérrez-Gutiérrez L (2012) Transformational leadership 
influence on organizational performance through organizational learning and innovation. J Bus Res 
65(7):1040–1050. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2011.03.005
Gardner WL, Lowe KB, Meuser JD, Noghani F, Gullifor DP, Cogliser CC (2020) The leadership tril­
ogy: a review of the third decade of the leadership quarterly. Leadersh Q 31(1):101379. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2019.101379
Gartner WB, Bird BJ, Starr JA (1992) Acting as if: differentiating entrepreneurial from organizational 
behavior. Entrep Theory Pract 16(3):13–32. https://doi.org/10.1177/104225879201600302
Gentles SJ, Charles C, Nicholas DB, Ploeg J, McKibbon KA (2016) Reviewing the research methods 
literature: principles and strategies illustrated by a systematic overview of sampling in qualitative 
research. Syst Rev 5:172. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13643-016-0343-0
Gerards R, van Wetten S, van Sambeek C (2021) New ways of working and intrapreneurial behaviour: 
the mediating role of transformational leadership and social interaction. Rev Manag Sci 15(7):2075–
2110. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11846-020-00412-1
Gilad B (1984) Entrepreneurship: the issue of creativity in the market place. J Creat Behav 18(3):151–161. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/j.2162-6057.1984.tb00379.x
Graen GB (2006) In the eye of the beholder: cross-cultural lesson in leadership from project GLOBE: 
a response viewed from the third culture bonding (TCB) model of cross-cultural leadership. Acad 
Manag Perspect 20(4):95–101. https://doi.org/10.5465/AMP.2006.23270309
Gray JH, Densten IL, Sarros JC (2003) Size matters: organisational culture in small, medium, and large 
australian organisations. J Small Bus Entrep 17(1):31–46. https://doi.org/10.1080/08276331.2003.1
0593311
Greenberger DB, Sexton DL (1987) Leadership and entrepreneurship: New directions for venture initia­
tion and success. In: Roberts GB, Lasher H, Maliche E (eds) New ventures: The proceedings of the 
second annual conference of the United States Association For Small Business and Entrepreneurship, 
Kennesaw College, Marietta, pp. 52–57
Grégoire DA, Barr PS, Shepherd DA (2010) Cognitive processes of opportunity recognition: the role of 
structural alignment. Organ Sci 21(2):413–431. https://doi.org/10.1287/orsc.1090.0462
Gumusluoglu L, Ilsev A (2009) Transformational leadership, creativity, and organizational innovation. J 
Bus Res 62(4):461–473. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2007.07.032
Gupta V, MacMillan IC, Surie G (2004) Entrepreneurial leadership: developing and measuring a cross-
cultural construct. J Bus Ventur 19(2):241–260. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0883-9026(03)00040-5
Harrison C, Paul S, Burnard K (2016) Entrepreneurial Leadership: a systematic literature review. Int Rev 
Entrep 14(2):235–264
Harrison RT, Leitch CM (1994) Entrepreneurship and leadership: the implications for education and devel­
opment. Entrep Reg Dev 6(2):111–125. https://doi.org/10.1080/08985629400000007
Harrison RT, Leitch CM, McAdam M (2018) Breaking glass: towards a gendered analysis of entrepre­
neurial leadership. In: Harrison RT, Leitch CM (eds) Research Handbook on Entrepreneurship and 
Leadership. Edward Elgar Publishing, Cheltenham, pp 467–490
Harrison C, Omeihe I, Simba A, Omeihe K (2020) Leading the way: the entrepreneur or the leader? J 
Small Bus Entrep 1–17. https://doi.org/10.1080/08276331.2020.1840853
Harsanto B, Roelfsema H (2015) Asian leadership styles, entrepreneurial firm orientation and business 
performance. Int J Entrep Small Bus 26(4):490–499. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJESB.2015.072759
1 3
532
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
Hemshorn de Sanchez CS, Gerpott FH, Lehmann-Willenbrock N (2022) A review and future agenda for 
behavioral research on leader–follower interactions at different temporal scopes. J Organ Behav 
43(2):342–368. https://doi.org/10.1002/job.2583
Hensel R, Visser R (2018) Shared leadership in entrepreneurial teams: the impact of personality. Int J 
Entrep Behav Res 24(6):1104–1119. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJEBR-03-2018-0133
Hensellek S, Kleine-Stegemann L, Kollmann T (2023) Entrepreneurial leadership, strategic flexibility, 
and venture performance: does founders’ span of control matter? J Bus Res 157:113544. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2022.113544
Hinkin TR (1995) A review of scale development practices in the study of organizations. J Manag 
21(5):967–988. https://doi.org/10.1177/014920639502100509
Hikkerova L, Ilouga SN, Sahut JM (2016) The entrepreneurship process and the model of volition. J Bus 
Res 69(5):1868–1873. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2015.10.071
Hoang G, Luu TT, Nguyen TT, Du T, Le LP (2022) Examining the effect of entrepreneurial leadership on 
employees’ innovative behavior in SME hotels: a mediated moderation model. Int J Hosp Manag 
102:103142. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhm.2022.103142
Hoch JE, Bommer WH, Dulebohn JH, Wu D (2018) Do ethical, authentic, and servant leadership explain 
variance above and beyond transformational leadership? A meta-analysis. J Manag 44(2):501–529. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206316665461
Houghton JD, Neck CP, Manz CC (2003) Self-leadership and superleadership. Shared leadership: refram­
ing the hows and whys of leadership. In: Pearce CL, Conger JA (eds) Shared Leadership: reframing 
the Hows and Whys of Leadership. SAGE Publications, Thousand Oaks, pp 123–140
House RJ (1977) A theory of charismatic leadership. In: Hunt JG, Larson LL (eds) The cutting edge. 
Southern Illinois University Press, Carbondale, pp 189–207
House RJ, Hanges PJ, Ruiz-Quintanilla SA, Dorfman PW, Javidan M, Dickson M, Gupta V (1999) Cul­
tural influences on leadership and organizations. In: Gesner M, Arnold V (eds) Advances in global 
leadership. JAI Press, Stamford, pp 175–233
Huang S, Ding D, Chen Z (2014) Entrepreneurial leadership and performance in chinese new ventures: 
a moderated mediation model of exploratory innovation, exploitative innovation and environmental 
dynamism. Creat Innov Manag 23(4):453–471. https://doi.org/10.1111/caim.12085
Hubner S, Most F, Wirtz J, Auer C (2022) Narratives in entrepreneurial ecosystems: drivers of effectuation 
versus causation. Small Bus Econ 59:211–242. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-021-00531-3
Hughes DJ, Lee A, Tian A, Newman A, Legood A (2018) Leadership, creativity, and innovation: a criti­
cal review and practical recommendations. Leadersh Q 29(5):549–569. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
leaqua.2018.03.001
Iftikhar MN, Justice JB, Audretsch DB (2022) The knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship: an 
asian perspective. Small Bus Econ 59:1401–1426. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-021-00577-3
Ireland RD, Hitt MA, Sirmon DG (2003) A model of strategic entrepreneurship: the construct and its 
dimensions. J Manag 29(6):963–989. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0149-2063(03)00086-2
Jensen SM, Luthans F (2006) Entrepreneurs as authentic leaders: impact on employees’ attitudes. Lead­
ersh Organ Dev J 27(8):646–666. https://doi.org/10.1108/01437730610709273
Jensen M, Potočnik K, Chaudhry S (2020) A mixed-methods study of CEO transformational leadership 
and firm performance. Eur Manag J 38(6):836–845. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2020.05.004
Judge TA, Piccolo RF (2004) Transformational and transactional leadership: a meta-analytic test of their 
relative validity. J Appl Psychol 89(5):755. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.89.5.755
Jung DI, Chow C, Wu A (2003) The role of transformational leadership in enhancing organizational 
innovation: hypotheses and some preliminary findings. Leadersh Q 14(4–5):525–544. https://doi.
org/10.1016/s1048-9843(03)00050-x
Kalshoven K, Den Hartog DN, De Hoogh AH (2011) Ethical leadership at work questionnaire (ELW): 
development and validation of a multidimensional measure. Leadersh Q 22(1):51–69. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2010.12.007
Kakabadse NK, Tatli A, Nicolopoulou K, Tankibayeva A, Mouraviev N (2018) A gender perspective on 
entrepreneurial leadership: female leaders in Kazakhstan. Eur Manag Rev 15(2):155–170. https://doi.
org/10.1111/emre.12125
Karol RA (2015) Leadership in the context of corporate entrepreneurship. J Lead Stud 8:30–34. https://
doi.org/10.1002/jls.21350
Kempster S, Cope J (2010) Learning to lead in the entrepreneurial context. Int J Entrep Behav Res 
16(1):5–34. https://doi.org/10.1108/13552551011020054
1 3
533
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
Khan AN, Khan NA (2022) The nexuses between transformational leadership and employee green organ­
isational citizenship behaviour: role of environmental attitude and green dedication. Bus Strategy 
Environ 31(3):921–933. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2926
Kimbu AN, de Jong A, Adam I, Ribeiro MA, Afenyo-Agbe E, Adeola O, Figueroa-Domecq C (2021) 
Recontextualising gender in entrepreneurial leadership. Ann Tour Res 88:103176. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.annals.2021.103176
Kirzner I (1973) Competition and entrepreneurship. University of Chicago Press, Chicago
Klijn EH, de Boer N, Eshuis J (2022) Leading frontline enforcers: how supervisors’ leadership style 
impacts inspectors’ enforcement style. Public Manag Rev 24(3):398–417. https://doi.org/10.1080/
14719037.2020.1833610
Knight FH (1921) Risk, uncertainty and profit. Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston and New York
Kraus S, Breier M, Dasí-Rodríguez S (2020) The art of crafting a systematic literature review in entrepre­
neurship research. Int Entrep Manag J 16(3):1023–1042. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11365-020-00635-4
Kraus S et al (2022) Literature reviews as independent studies: guidelines for academic practice. Rev 
Manag Sci 16:2577–2595. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11846-022-00588-8
Kuratko DF (2007) Entrepreneurial leadership in the 21st century: Guest editor’s perspective. J Leadersh 
Organ Stud 13(4):1–11. https://doi.org/10.1177/10717919070130040201
Kuratko DF, Fisher G, Audretsch DB (2021) Unraveling the entrepreneurial mindset. Small Bus Econ 
57(4):1681–1691. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-020-00372-6
Landström H (2020) The evolution of entrepreneurship as a scholarly field. Found Trends Entrep 16(2):65–
243. https://doi.org/10.1561/0300000083
Lee A, Legood A, Hughes D, Tian AW, Newman A, Knight C (2020) Leadership, creativity and innova­
tion: a meta-analytic review. Eur J Work Organ Psychol 29(1):1–35. https://doi.org/10.1080/13594
32x.2019.1661837
Leitch CM, Harrison RT (2018a) Entrepreneurial leadership: a critical review and research agenda. In: 
Blackburn R, De Clercq D, Heinonen J (eds) SAGE handbook of Small Business and Entrepreneur­
ship. Sage, London, pp 15–37
Leitch CM, Harrison RT (2018b) The evolving field of entrepreneurial leadership: an overview. In: Har­
rison RT, Leitch CM (eds) Research Handbook on Entrepreneurship and Leadership. Edward Elgar 
Publishing, Cheltenham, pp 3–34
Leitch CM, McMullan C, Harrison RT (2013) The development of entrepreneurial leadership: 
the role of human, social and institutional capital. Br J Manag 24(3):347–366. https://doi.
org/10.1111/j.1467-8551.2011.00808.x
Leitch CM, Volery T (2017) Entrepreneurial leadership: insights and directions. Int Small Bus J 35(2):147–
156. https://doi.org/10.1177/0266242616681397
Lejuez CW et al (2002) Evaluation of a behavioral measure of risk taking: the Balloon Analogue Risk Task 
(BART). J Exp Psychol Appl 8(2):75. https://doi.org/10.1037//1076-898x.8.2.75
Liden RC, Antonakis J (2009) Considering context in psychological leadership research. Hum Relat 
62(11):1587–1605. https://doi.org/10.1177/0018726709346374
Liden RC, Maslyn JM (1998) Multidimensionality of leader-member exchange: an empirical assessment 
through scale development. J Manag 24(1):43–72. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0149-2063(99)80053-1
Lin Q, Yi L (2022) Survival of the fittest: the multiple paths of entrepreneurial leadership driving adap­
tive innovation in uncertain environment. Eur J. https://doi.org/10.1108/EJIM-10-2021-0488. Innov 
Manag (ahead-of-print)
Lippitt GL (1987) Entrepreneurial leadership: a performing art. J Creat Behav 21(3):264–270. https://doi.
org/10.1002/j.2162-6057.1987.tb00483.x
Liu J, Zhou X, Wang Q (2022) The influence of entrepreneurial leadership on employee improvisa­
tion in new ventures: based on cognitive-affective processing system framework. https://doi.
org/10.1108/K-10-2021-0933. Kybernetes (ahead-of-print)
Lowe KB, Gardner WL (2000) Ten years of the leadership quarterly: contributions and challenges for the 
future. Leadersh Q 11(4):459–514. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1048-9843(00)00059-x
Lowe KB, Kroeck KG, Sivasubramaniam N (1996) Effectiveness correlates of transformational and trans­
actional leadership: a meta-analytic review of the MLQ literature. Leadersh Q 7(3):385–425. https://
doi.org/10.1016/S1048-9843(96)90027-2
Lukes M, Stephan U (2017) Measuring employee innovation: a review of existing scales and the devel­
opment of the innovative behavior and innovation support inventories across cultures. Int J Entrep 
Behav Res 23(1):136–158. https://doi.org/10.1108/ijebr-11-2015-0262
1 3
534
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
Luu TD (2023) Fostering strategic entrepreneurship of SMEs: the role of organisational change forces. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/MD-08-2021-1024. Manag Decis (ahead-of-print)
Lyons TS, Lyons JS, Jolley GJ (2020) Entrepreneurial skill-building in rural ecosystems: a framework 
for applying the readiness inventory for successful entrepreneurship (RISE). J Entrep Public Policy 
9(1):112–136. https://doi.org/10.1108/jepp-09-2019-0075
Ma X, Jiang W (2018) Transformational leadership, transactional leadership, and employee creativity in 
entrepreneurial firms. J Appl Behav Sci 54(3):302–324. https://doi.org/10.1177/0021886318764346
Malibari MA, Bajaba S (2022) Entrepreneurial leadership and employees’ innovative behavior: a sequen­
tial mediation analysis of innovation climate and employees’ intellectual agility. J Innov Knowl 
7(4):100255. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jik.2022.100255
Maran T, Bachmann AK, Mohr C, Ravet-Brown T, Vogelauer L, Furtner M (2021) Motivational founda­
tions of identifying and exploiting entrepreneurial opportunities. Int J Entrep Behav Res 27(4):1054–
1081. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJEBR-05-2020-0291
Maran T, Furtner M, Kraus GS, Liegl S, Jones P (2019) Entrepreneurial leadership: an experimental 
approach investigating the influence of eye contact on motivation. J Small Bus Strategy 29(3):16–32
McCarthy DJ, Puffer SM, Darda SV (2010) Convergence in entrepreneurial leadership style: evidence 
from Russia. Calif Manag Rev 52(4):48–72. https://doi.org/10.1525/cmr.2010.52.4.48
Mehmood MS, Jian Z, Akram U, Tariq A (2021a) Entrepreneurial leadership: the key to develop creativity 
in organizations. Leadersh Organ Dev J 42(3):434–452. https://doi.org/10.1108/LODJ-01-2020-0008
Mehmood MS, Jian Z, Akram U, Akram Z, Tanveer Y (2021b) Entrepreneurial leadership and team creativ­
ity: the roles of team psychological safety and knowledge sharing. Pers Rev. https://doi.org/10.1108/
PR-07-2020-0517
Men LR, Qin YS, Mitson R (2021) Engaging startup employees via charismatic leadership communica­
tion: the importance of communicating “vision, passion, and care. Int J Bus Commun. https://doi.
org/10.1177/23294884211020488
Montano D, Schleu JE, Hüffmeier J (2023) A meta-analysis of the relative contribution of lead­
ership styles to followers’ mental health. J Leadersh Organ Stud 30(1):90–107. https://doi.
org/10.1177/15480518221114854
Mumford MD, Scott GM, Gaddis B, Strange JM (2002) Leading creative people: orchestrating expertise 
and relationships. Leadersh Q 13(6):705–750. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1048-9843(02)00158-3
Munir H, Jianfeng C, Ramzan S (2019) Personality traits and theory of planned behavior comparison of 
entrepreneurial intentions between an emerging economy and a developing country. Int J Entrep 
Behav Res 25(3):554–580. https://doi.org/10.1108/ijebr-05-2018-0336
Newman A, Herman HM, Schwarz G, Nielsen I (2018) The effects of employees’ creative self-efficacy 
on innovative behavior: the role of entrepreneurial leadership. J Bus Res 89(C):1–9. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2018.04.001
Ng WHT (2017) Transformational leadership and performance outcomes: analyses of multiple mediation 
pathways. Leadersh Q 23(3):385–417. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2016.11.008
Ng HS, Kee DMH (2018) The core competence of successful owner-managed SMEs. Manag Decis 
56(1):252–272. https://doi.org/10.1108/MD-12-2016-0877
Ng HS, Kee DMH, Ramayah T (2019) Examining the mediating role of innovativeness in the link between 
core competencies and SME performance. J Small Bus Enterp Dev 27(1):103–129. https://doi.
org/10.1108/jsbed-12-2018-0379
Nicholson N (1998) Personality and entrepreneurial leadership: a study of the heads of the UK’s 
most successful independent companies. Eur Manag J 16(5):529–539. https://doi.org/10.1016/
S0263-2373(98)00030-9
Niemann CC, Mai R, Dickel P (2022) Nurture or nature? How organizational and individual fac­
tors drive corporate entrepreneurial projects. J Bus Res 140:155–169. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jbusres.2021.11.065
Northouse PG (2018) Leadership: theory and practice. SAGE, London
Oberer B, Erkollar A (2018) Leadership 4.0: Digital leaders in the age of industry 4.0. J Leadersh Organ 
Stud 7(4). https://doi.org/10.33844/ijol.2018.60332
Overstreet RE, Hanna JB, Byrd TA, Cegielski CG, Hazen BT (2013) Leadership style and organizational 
innovativeness drive motor carriers toward sustained performance. Int J Logist Manag 24(2):247–
270. https://doi.org/10.1108/ijlm-12-2012-0141
Palich LE, Bagby DR (1995) Using cognitive theory to explain entrepreneurial risk-taking: challenging 
conventional wisdom. J Bus Ventur 10(6):425–438. https://doi.org/10.1016/0883-9026(95)00082-J
1 3
535
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
Pauceanu AM, Rabie N, Moustafa A, Jiroveanu DC (2021) Entrepreneurial leadership and sustainable 
development—A systematic literature review. Sustainability 13(21):1–18. https://doi.org/10.3390/
su132111695
Paudel S (2019) Entrepreneurial leadership and business performance: Effect of organizational innova­
tion and environmental dynamism. South Asian J Bus Stud 8(3):348–369. https://doi.org/10.1108/
sajbs-11-2018-0136
Peck KL (1991) Before looking for the gas pedal: a call for entrepreneurial leadership in american schools. 
Education 111(4):516–520
Peters M, Kallmünzer A (2018) Entrepreneurial orientation in family firms: the case of the hospitality 
industry. Curr Issues Tour 21(1):21–40. https://doi.org/10.1080/13683500.2015.1053849
Pistrui D, Welsch HP, Wintermantel O, Liao J, Pohl HJ (2000) Entrepreneurial orientation and family 
forces in the new Germany: similarities and differences between East and west german entrepreneurs. 
Fam Bus Rev 13(3):251–264. https://doi.org/10.1111/J.1741-6248.2000.00251.x
Prabhu MH, Srivastava AK (2023) Modeling transformational leadership, supply chain collaboration and 
firm performance–a case of India. Int J. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJOEM-04-2022-0651. Emerg Mark 
(ahead-of-print)
Pu B, Sang W, Yang J, Ji S, Tang Z (2022) The Effect of Entrepreneurial Leadership on Employees’ Tacit 
Knowledge sharing in Start-Ups: a Moderated Mediation Model. Psychol Res Behav Manag 15:137. 
https://doi.org/10.2147/PRBM.S347523
Raby RL, Fischer H, Cruz NI (2023) Community College International leaders’ sensemaking: Entre­
preneurial Leadership Skills and Behavior. Community Coll Rev 51(1):52–74. https://doi.
org/10.1177/00915521221125822
Reid SW, Anglin AH, Baur JE, Short JC, Buckley MR (2018) Blazing new trails or opportunity lost? Eval­
uating research at the intersection of leadership and entrepreneurship. Leadersh Q 29(1):150–164. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2017.11.005
Renko M (2017) Entrepreneurial leadership. In: Day DV, Antonakis J (eds) The nature of Leadership. 
Sage, London, pp 381–408
Renko M, El Tarabishy A, Carsrud AL, Brännback M (2015) Understanding and measuring entrepreneur­
ial leadership style. J Small Bus Manag 53(1):54–74. https://doi.org/10.1111/jsbm.12086
Ribeiro-Navarrete S, Piñeiro-Chousa J, López-Cabarcos M, Palacios-Marqués D (2022) Crowdlend­
ing: mapping the core literature and research frontiers. Rev Manag Sci 16:2381–2411. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11846-021-00491-8
Röschke A (2018a) Entrepreneurial Leadership. Dissertation, University of St. Gallen
Röschke A (2018b) The concept and evolution of entrepreneurial leadership: a bibliometric analysis. In: 
Harrison RT, Leitch CM (eds) Research Handbook on Entrepreneurship and Leadership. Edward 
Elgar Publishing, Cheltenham, pp 37–64
Salmony FU, Kanbach DK (2022) Personality trait differences across types of entrepreneurs: a systematic 
literature review. Rev Manag Sci 16(3):713–749. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11846-021-00466-9
Sarasvathy SD (2008) Effectuation: elements of entrepreneurial expertise. Edward Elgar Publishing, 
Cheltenham
Schaubroeck J, Lam SS, Cha SE (2007) Embracing transformational leadership: team values and 
the impact of leader behavior on team performance. J Appl Psychol 92(4):1020. https://doi.
org/10.1037/0021-9010.92.4.1020
Schneider M, Teske P (1992) Toward a theory of the political entrepreneur: evidence from local govern­
ment. Am Political Sci Rev 86(3):737–747. https://doi.org/10.2307/1964135
Schoemaker PJ, Heaton S, Teece D (2018) Innovation, dynamic capabilities, and leadership. Calif Manag 
Rev 61(1):15–42. https://doi.org/10.1177/00081256187902
Schumpeter JA (1942) Capitalism, socialism and democracy. University of Illinois at Urbana-Cham­
paign’s Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Historical Research Reference in Entrepreneurship, 
Urbana Champaign
Selsky JW, Smith AE (1994) Community entrepreneurship: a framework for social change leadership. 
Leadersh Q 5(3–4):277–296. https://doi.org/10.1016/1048-9843(94)90018-3
Shaffer JA, DeGeest D, Li A (2016) Tackling the problem of construct proliferation: a guide to assess­
ing the discriminant validity of conceptually related constructs. Organ Res Methods 19(1):80–110. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428115598239
Shane S, Venkataraman S (2000) The promise of entrepreneurship as a field of research. Acad Manag Rev 
25:217–226. https://doi.org/10.2307/259271
1 3
536
Transformational and entrepreneurial leadership: A review of…
Shane S, Venkataraman S, MacMillan I (1995) Cultural differences in innovation championing strategies. 
J Manag 21(5):931–952. https://doi.org/10.1016/0149-2063(95)90048-9
Shin SJ, Zhou J (2003) Transformational leadership, conservation, and creativity: evidence from Korea. 
Acad Manag J 46(6):703–714. https://doi.org/10.2307/30040662
Soomro BA, Shah N (2022) Robustness of the transformational leadership towards corporate entrepre­
neurship. J Public Aff 22(2):e2509. https://doi.org/10.1002/pa.2509
Sosik JJ, Kahai SS, Avolio BJ (1998) Transformational leadership and dimensions of creativity: motivating 
idea generation in computer-mediated groups. Creat Res J 11(2):111–121. https://doi.org/10.1207/
s15326934crj1102_3
Strobl A, Kallmünzer A, Peters M (2022) Entrepreneurial Leadership in Austrian Family SMEs: a Con­
figurational Approach. Int Small Bus J. https://doi.org/10.1177/02662426221084918
Surie G, Ashley A (2008) Integrating pragmatism and ethics in entrepreneurial leadership for sustainable 
value creation. J Bus Ethics 81(1):235–246. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-007-9491-4
Tarí JJ, Maquieira SP, Molina-Azorín JF (2023) The link between transformational leadership and the 
EFQM model elements. Bus Process Manag. https://doi.org/10.1108/BPMJ-10-2022-0498. J 
(ahead-of-print)
Thuan LC (2020) Motivating follower creativity by offering intellectual stimulation. Int J Organ Anal 
28(4):817–829. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJOA-06-2019-1799
Tlaiss HA, Kauser S (2019) Entrepreneurial leadership, patriarchy, gender, and identity in the arab world: 
Lebanon in focus. J Small Bus Manag 57(2):517–537. https://doi.org/10.1111/jsbm.12397
Tranfield D, Denyer D, Smart P (2003) Towards a methodology for developing evidence-informed 
management knowledge by means of systematic review. Br J Manag 14(3):207–222. https://doi.
org/10.1111/1467-8551.00375
Van Dierendonck D, Nuijten I (2011) The servant leadership survey: development and validation of a mul­
tidimensional measure. J Bus Psychol 26(3):249–267. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-010-9194-1
Van Praag CM, Versloot PH (2007) What is the value of entrepreneurship? A review of recent research. 
Small Bus Econ 29(4):351–382. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-007-9074-x
Vecchio RP (2003) Entrepreneurship and leadership: common trends and common threads. Hum Resour 
Manag Rev 13(2):303–327. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1053-4822(03)00019-6
Verma P, Kumar V (2021) Developing leadership styles and green entrepreneurial orientation to measure 
organization growth: a study on indian green organizations. J Entrep Emerg Econ 14(6):1299–1324. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/jeee-01-2021-0035
Vivona R (2023) The new era leadership for the public sector? Entrepreneurship, effectiveness, and 
democracy. Public Manag Rev 1–17. https://doi.org/10.1080/14719037.2022.2162957
Walumbwa FO, Avolio BJ, Gardner WL, Wernsing TS, Peterson SJ (2008) Authentic leadership: 
development and validation of a theory-based measure. J Manag 34(1):89–126. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0149206307308913
Wang G, Oh IS, Courtright SH, Colbert AE (2011) Transformational leadership and performance across 
criteria and levels: a meta-analytic review of 25 years of research. Group Organ Manag 36(2):223–
270. https://doi.org/10.1177/1059601111401017
Wang CL, Tee DD, Ahmed PK (2012) Entrepreneurial leadership and context in chinese firms: a tale of 
two chinese private enterprises. Asia Pac Bus Rev 18(4):505–530. https://doi.org/10.1080/1360238
1.2012.690257
Xu F, Jin L (2022) Impact of daily entrepreneurial stressors on long-term transformational leader behaviors 
and well-being: Differences in experienced and nascent entrepreneurs. J Bus Res 139(C):280–291. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2021.09.059
Yasin G, Nawab S, Bhatti KK, Nazir T (2014) Relationship of intellectual stimulation, innovations and 
SMEs performance: Transformational leadership a source of competitive advantage in SMEs. Middle 
East J Sci Res 19(1):74–81. https://doi.org/10.5829/idosi.mejsr.2014.19.1.12458
Yousafzai SY, Saeed S, Muffatto M (2015) Institutional theory and contextual embeddedness of women’s 
entrepreneurial leadership: evidence from 92 countries. J Small Bus Manag 53(3):587–604. https://
doi.org/10.1111/jsbm.12179
Yukl G (2013) Leadership in Organizations. Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs
Yukl G (1989) Managerial leadership: a review of theory and research. J Manag 15(2):251–289. https://
doi.org/10.1177/014920638901500207
Zapalska AM, Brozik D, Zieser N (2015) Factors affecting success of small business enterprises in the 
polish tourism industry. Tourism 63(3):365–381
1 3
537
T. É. Ravet-Brown et al.
Zaech S, Baldegger U (2017) Leadership in start-ups. Int Small Bus J 35(2):157–177. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0266242616676883
Zhou W, Vredenburgh D, Rogoff EG (2015) Informational diversity and entrepreneurial team performance: 
moderating effect of shared leadership. Int Entrep Manag J 1(11):39–55. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11365-013-0274-3
Żywiołek J, Tucmeanu ER, Tucmeanu AI, Isac N, Yousaf Z (2022) Nexus of transformational leadership, 
employee adaptiveness, knowledge sharing, and employee creativity. Sustainability 14(18):11607. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su141811607
Publisher’s Note  Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps 
and institutional affiliations.
Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under 
a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted 
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and appli­
cable law.
1 3
538
